.\" $XConsortium: appres.man,v 1.10 94/04/11 18:47:08 gildea Exp $
.\" Copyright 1993 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written prior permission.  M.I.T. makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.TH APPRES 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
appres \- list X application resource database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "appres"
[[class [instance]] [\-1] [toolkitoptions] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIappres\fP program prints the resources seen by an application
(or subhierarchy of an application) with the specified \fIclass\fP and
\fIinstance\fP names.  It can be used to determine which
resources a particular program will load.  For example,
.sp 1
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres  XTerm
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp 1
will list the resources that any \fIxterm\fP program will load.
If no application class is specified, the class \fI-AppResTest-\fP is used.
.PP
To match a particular instance name, specify an instance name
explicitly after the class name, or use the normal Xt toolkit option.
For example,
.sp 1
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres  XTerm  myxterm
.fi
.in -.5i
or
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres  XTerm  \-name  myxterm
.fi
.in -.5i
.PP
To list resources that match a subhierarchy of an application, specify
hierarchical class and instance names.  The number of class and instance
components must be equal, and the instance name should not be
specified with a toolkit option.  For example,
.sp 1
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres  Xman.TopLevelShell.Form  xman.topBox.form
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp 1
will list the resources of widgets of \fIxman\fP topBox hierarchy.
To list just the resources matching a specific level in the hierarcy,
use the \-1 option.  For example,
.sp 1
.in +.5i
.nf
% appres  XTerm.VT100  xterm.vt100  \-1
.fi
.in -.5i
.sp 1
will list the resources matching the \fIxterm\fP vt100 widget.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
X(1), xrdb(1), listres(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
