.\" $XConsortium: Xsun.man,v 1.16 93/08/31 18:19:43 kaleb Exp $
.TH XSUN 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xsun, XsunMono \- Sun server for X Version 11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Xsun
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xsun
is the server for Version 11 of the X window system on Sun hardware.
It will normally be started by the \fIxdm(1)\fP daemon or by a script
that runs the program \fIxinit(1)\fP.
.SH CONFIGURATIONS
.PP
.I Xsun
supports both color and monochrome screens.
.I XsunMono
is configured to support only monochrome screens, for low-end systems 
with limited memory.
.PP
If a specific framebuffer device file isn't specified on the command 
line with the \fI\-dev\fP switch, the server will look for the 
following framebuffers (the \fIconstype(1)\fP program may be used
to tell which type of display is attached as the console):
.TP 8
.B /dev/bwtwo0
This monochrome display is available on Sun-3/50, Sun-3/75, Sun-3/140, 
Sun-3/260, and Sun-3/280 platforms with both the 1152x900 and 1600x1280 
screen sizes.
.TP 8
.B /dev/cgtwo0
This color display is available on 3/160C, 3/260C, and 4/260C platforms.
It may also be used as a monochrome-only display with the \fI-mono\fP switch.
.TP 8
.B /dev/cgthree0
This color display is available on both the Sun386i and SPARCstation 1 
platforms.
.TP 8
.B /dev/cgfour0
This display is available on Sun-3/60, Sun-3/110, and Sun-4/110 
platforms.  It provides both color and monochrome screens (numbered 0 
and 1, respectively by default) on the same monitor by toggling between 
them whenever the mouse goes off the left or right edges of the screen.
.TP 8
.B /dev/cgsix0
This color display is available on SPARCstation 1 platforms with the 
GX graphics accelerator (which is used by the server to make some 
operations faster).
.PP
Finally, if no specific framebuffers are found, the generic framebuffer 
interface \fI/dev/fb\fP is used.
.PP
Note that the server does not support the GP,  GP+,  or GP2 graphics
coprocessors.  On these platforms, the \fBcgtwo\fP framebuffer should be
used instead (either by creating it or specifying \fI-dev /dev/cgtwo0\fP
on the server command line).
.SH KEYBOARDS
.PP
Xsun and XsunMono support the Type-2, Type-3, and many variations of the 
Type-4 and Type-5 keyboards. Xsun and XsunMono also have support for the 
101-key PC keyboard for systems running the Intel version of Solaris 2.
.PP
Type-4 and Type-5 keyboards feature a key labeled \fIAltGraph\fP which 
is a mode-shift key. The mode-shift key is used to generate the symbols 
painted on the fronts of the keys. The mode-shift key works exactly like 
the \fIShift\fP, \fIControl\fP, \fIAlt\fP, and \fI<Meta>\fP keys.
.PP
The ten function keys on the left side of the Type-5 keyboard may be 
considered as having L1..L10 painted on their fronts.  Shift-AltGraph 
will cause different keysyms to be generated for some keys, e.g. the 
Type-5 \fISysRq\fP key.
.PP
For compatibility with Sun's X11/NeWS server, the F11 and F12 keys may 
be made to generate the equivalent X11/NeWS keysyms by using mode-switch.
.PP
For backwards compatibility, the normal and mode-shifted keysyms for 
the ten function keys on the left side of Type-4 and Type-5 keyboards 
may be swapped via command line option. See \fI-swapLkeys\fP.
.PP
The X LEDs 1..4 correspond to the NumLock, Compose, ScrollLock, and
CapsLock LEDs respectively. Pressing the key once turns the corresponding
LED on and may send a KeyPress event to any client which has the keyboard
focus. Pressing the key again turns the LED off and may send a KeyRelease
event. Turning an LED on or off with e.g. 'xset [-]led [1234]' is equivalent 
to pressing the corresponding key, and a KeyPress or KeyRelease event may 
be sent.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
In addition to the normal server options described in the \fIXserver(1)\fP
manual page, \fIXsun\fP accepts the following command line switches:
.TP 8
.B "\-ar1 \fImilliseconds\fP"
This option specifies amount of time in milliseconds before which a 
pressed key should begin to autorepeat.
.TP 8
.B "\-ar2 \fImilliseconds\fP"
This option specifies the interval in milliseconds between autorepeats 
of pressed keys.
.TP 8
.B \-swapLkeys
Swaps the normal keysyms for the function keys on the left side of 
Type-4 and Type-5 keyboards with the alternate keysyms, i.e. the keysyms 
painted on the front of the keys.
.TP 8
.B \-mono
When used with the \fBcgtwo\fP, this option indicates that the server 
should emulate a monochrome framebuffer instead of the normal color 
framebuffer.  When used with the \fBcgfour\fP, this option indicates 
that the monochrome screen should be numbered 0 and the color screen 
numbered 1 (instead of the other way around).
.TP 8
.B \-zaphod
This option disables switching between screens by sliding the mouse off 
the left or right edges.  With this disabled, a window manager function 
must be used to switch between screens.
.TP 8
.B \-debug
This option indicates that the server is being run from a debugger, and 
that it should \fBnot\fP put its standard input, output and error files 
into non-blocking mode.
.TP 8
.B "\-dev \fIfilename\fP"
This option specifies the name of the framebuffer device file to be used
instead of the built-in defaults described above.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
\fBXDEVICE\fP
If present,  and if no explicit
.B -dev
options are given, specifies the (colon separated) list of display devices
to use.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
X(1), Xserver(1), xdm(1), xinit(1)
.SH BUGS
The auto-configuration depends on there being appropriate special files 
in the
.I /dev
directory for the framebuffers which are to be used.  Extra entries can 
confuse the server.  For example,  the X/160C in fact has the hardware 
for a monochrome
.B bwtwo0
on the CPU board.  So if 
.I /dev
has a special file for
.IR /dev/bwtwo0 ,
the server will use it,  even though there is no monitor attached to the
monochrome framebuffer.
The server will appear to start,  but not to paint a cursor,  because the
cursor is on the monochrome frame buffer. The solution is to remove the
.I /dev
entries for any device you don't have a monitor for.
.PP
There is a bug in pre-FCS operating systems for the Sun-4 which causes 
the server to crash driving a \fBcgtwo\fP.
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
.TP 8
U. C. Berkeley
Adam de Boor.
.TP 8
Sun Microsystems
David Rosenthal,  Stuart Marks,  Robin Schaufler,  Mike Schwartz,
Frances Ho,  Geoff Lee,  and Mark Opperman.
.TP 8
MIT Laboratory for Computer Science
.br
Bob Scheifler, Keith Packard, Kaleb Keithley
