.TH XMBUF 3X11 "Release 5" "X Version 11" "X FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XmbufQueryExtension, XmbufGetVersion, XmbufCreateBuffers, XmbufDestroyBuffers, XmbufDisplayBuffers, XmbufGetWindowAttributes, XmbufChangeWindowAttributes, XmbufGetBufferAttributes, XmbufChangeBufferAttributes, XmbufGetScreenInfo, XmbufCreateStereoWindow - X multibuffering functions
.SH SYNTAX
.nf
.LP
#include <X11/extensions/multibuf.h>
.LP
Bool XmbufQueryExtension(
    Display *dpy,
    Display *dpy,
    int *event_base_return,
    int *error_base_return);
.LP
Status XmbufGetVersion(
    Display *dpy,
    int *major_version_return,
    int *minor_version_return);
.LP
int XmbufCreateBuffers(
    Display *dpy,
    Window window,
    int count,
    int update_action,
    int update_hint,
    Multibuffer *buffers_update);
.LP
void XmbufDestroyBuffers(
    Display *dpy,
    Window window);
.LP
void XmbufDisplayBuffers(
    Display *dpy,
    int count,
    Multibuffer *buffers,
    int min_delay,
    int max_delay);
.LP
Status XmbufGetWindowAttributes(
    Display *dpy,
    Window window,
    XmbufWindowAttributes *attributes);
.LP
void XmbufChangeWindowAttributes(
    Display *dpy,
    Window window,
    unsigned long valuemask,
    XmbufSetWindowAttributes *attributes);
.LP
Status XmbufGetBufferAttributes(
    Display *dpy,
    Multibuffer buffer,
    XmbufBufferAttributes *attributes);
.LP
void XmbufChangeBufferAttributes(
    Display *dpy,
    Multibuffer buffer,
    unsigned long valuemask,
    XmbufSetBufferAttributes *attributes);
.LP
Status XmbufGetScreenInfo(
    Display *dpy,
    Drawable drawable,
    int *nmono_return,
    XmbufBufferInfo **mono_info_return,
    int *nstereo_return,
    XmbufBufferInfo **stereo_info_return);
.LP
Window XmbufCreateStereoWindow(
    Display *dpy,
    Window parent,
    int x,
    int y,
    unsigned int width,
    unsigned int height,
    unsigned int border_width,
    int depth,
    unsigned int class,                 /* InputOutput, InputOnly*/
    Visual *visual,
    unsigned long valuemask,
    XSetWindowAttributes *attributes,
    Multibuffer *left_return,
    Multibuffer *right_return);
.fi
.SH STRUCTURES
.nf
\fBEvents\fP
typedef struct {
    int type;               /* of event */
    unsigned long serial;   /* # of last request processed by server */
    int send_event;         /* true if this came frome a SendEvent request */
    Display *display;       /* Display the event was read from */
    Multibuffer buffer;     /* buffer of event */
    int state;              /* see Clobbered constants above */
} XmbufClobberNotifyEvent;
.LP
typedef struct {
    int type;               /* of event */
    unsigned long serial;   /* # of last request processed by server */
    int send_event;         /* true if this came frome a SendEvent request */
    Display *display;       /* Display the event was read from */
    Multibuffer buffer;     /* buffer of event */
} XmbufUpdateNotifyEvent;
.LP
\fBPer-window attributes that can be got\fP
typedef struct {
    int displayed_index;        /* which buffer is being displayed */
    int update_action;          /* Undefined, Background, Untouched, Copied */
    int update_hint;            /* Frequent, Intermittent, Static */
    int window_mode;            /* Mono, Stereo */
    int nbuffers;		/* Number of buffers */
    Multibuffer *buffers;	/* Buffers */
} XmbufWindowAttributes;
.LP
\fBPer-window attributes that can be set\fP
typedef struct {
    int update_hint;            /* Frequent, Intermittent, Static */
} XmbufSetWindowAttributes;
.LP
\fBPer-buffer attributes that can be got\fP
typedef struct {
    Window window;              /* which window this belongs to */
    unsigned long event_mask;   /* events that have been selected */
    int buffer_index;           /* which buffer is this */
    int side;                   /* Mono, Left, Right */
} XmbufBufferAttributes;
.LP
\fBPer-buffer attributes that can be set\fP
typedef struct {
    unsigned long event_mask;   /* events that have been selected */
} XmbufSetBufferAttributes;
.LP
\fBPer-screen buffer info (there will be lists of them)\fP
typedef struct {
    VisualID visualid;          /* visual usuable at this depth */
    int max_buffers;            /* most buffers for this visual */
    int depth;                  /* depth of buffers to be created */
} XmbufBufferInfo;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The application programming library for the
\fIX11 Double-Buffering, Multi-Buffering, and Stereo Extension\fP
contains the interfaces described below.
With the exception of \fBXmbufQueryExtension\fP, if any of these routines are
called with a display that does not support the extension, the
ExtensionErrorHandler (which can be set with \fBXSetExtensionErrorHandler\fP
and functions the same way as \fBXSetErrorHandler\fI) will be called
and the function will then return.
.PP
\fBXmbufQueryExtension\fP returns \fBTrue\fP if the multibuffering/stereo 
extension is available on the
given display.  If the extension exists, the value of the first event
code (which should be added to the event type constants
\fBMultibufferClobberNotify\fP and \fBMultibufferUpdateNotify\fP
to get the actual
values) is stored into event_base_return and the value of the first
error code (which should be added to the error type constant
\fBMultibufferBadBuffer\fP to get the actual value) is stored into
error_base_return.
.PP
\fBXmbufGetVersion\fP gets the major and minor version numbers
of the extension.  
The return
value is zero if an error occurs or non-zero if no error happens.
.PP
\fBXmbufCreateBuffers\fP requests that "count" buffers be 
created with the given update_action
and update_hint and be associated with the indicated window.  The
number of buffers created is returned (zero if an error occurred)
and buffers_update is filled in with that many Multibuffer identifiers.
.PP
\fBXmbufDestroyBuffers\fP destroys the buffers associated 
with the given window.
.PP
\fBXmbufDisplayBuffers\fP displays the indicated buffers their
appropriate windows within
max_delay milliseconds after min_delay milliseconds have passed.
No two buffers may be associated with the same window or else a Matc
error is generated.
.PP
\fBXmbufGetWindowAttributes\fP gets the multibuffering attributes that apply 
to all buffers associated
with the given window.
The list of buffers returns may be freed with \fBXFree\fP.
Returns non-zero on success and zero if an error occurs.
.PP
\fBXmbufChangeWindowAttributes\fP sets the multibuffering attributes 
that apply to all buffers associated
with the given window.  This is currently limited to the update_hint.
.PP
\fBXmbufGetBufferAttributes\fP gets the attributes for the indicated buffer.
Returns non-zero on
success and zero if an error occurs.
.PP
\fBXmbufChangeBufferAttributes\fP sets the attributes for the indicated buffer.
This is currently limited to the event_mask.
.PP
\fBXmbufGetScreenInfo\fP gets the parameters controlling how
mono and stereo windows may be
created on the screen of the given drawable.  The numbers of sets of
visual and depths are returned in nmono_return and nstereo_return.  If
nmono_return is greater than zero, then mono_info_return is set to the
address of an array of \fBXmbufBufferInfo\fP structures describing the
various visuals and depths that may be used.  Otherwise,
mono_info_return is set to NULL.  Similarly, stereo_info_return is set
according to nstereo_return.  The storage returned in mono_info_return
and stereo_info_return may be released by \fBXFree\fP.  If no errors are
encounted, non-zero will be returned.
.PP
\fBXmbufCreateStereoWindow\fP creates a stereo window in the same
way that \fBXCreateWindow\fP creates
a mono window.  The buffer ids for the left and right buffers are
returned in left_return and right_return, respectively.  If an
extension error handler that returns is installed, \fBNone\fP will be
returned if the extension is not available on this display.
.SH PREDEFINED VALUES
.sp
Update_action field:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fB
MultibufferUpdateActionUndefined	
MultibufferUpdateActionBackground
MultibufferUpdateActionUntouched
MultibufferUpdateActionCopied
\fP
.in -.5i
.fi
.sp
Update_hint field:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fB
MultibufferUpdateHintFrequent		
MultibufferUpdateHintIntermittent
MultibufferUpdateHintStatic	
\fP
.in -.5i
.sp
.fi
Valuemask fields:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fB
MultibufferWindowUpdateHint
MultibufferBufferEventMask
\fP
.in -.5i
.fi
.sp
Mono vs. stereo and left vs. right:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fB
MultibufferModeMono	
MultibufferModeStereo
MultibufferSideMono
MultibufferSideLeft
MultibufferSideRight		
\fP
.in -.5i
.fi
.sp
Clobber state:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fB
MultibufferUnclobbered	
MultibufferPartiallyClobbered
MultibufferFullyClobbered	
\fP
.in -.5i
.fi
.sp
Event stuff:
.in +.5i
.nf
\fB
MultibufferClobberNotifyMask
MultibufferUpdateNotifyMask
MultibufferClobberNotify
MultibufferUpdateNotify
MultibufferNumberEvents
MultibufferBadBuffer
MultibufferNumberErrors
\fP
.in -.5i
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIExtending X for Double Buffering, Multi-Buffering, and Stereo\fP
(Friedberg, Seiler, Vroom)
