.\" $XConsortium: xmh.man,v 1.16 89/10/11 20:40:26 converse Exp $
.TH XMH 1 "11 October 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
\fIxmh\fR \- X window interface to the MH message handling system.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xmh
[-path \fImailpath\fR] [-initial \fIfoldername\fR] [-flag] [-\fItoolkitoption\fR ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xmh
program provides a window-oriented front end to the MH message handling
system. It is designed to take advantage of a large graphical
display and pointer; it will not function on an ordinary terminal at all.

\fIXmh\fR consists of user-interface code only.  To actually do things
with your mail, it makes calls to the \fImh\fR package.

Please don't be misled by the size of this document.  \fIXmh\fR really is
easy to use!

.SH INSTALLATION
The current version of \fIxmh\fR requires that the user is already set up
to use \fImh\fR, version 6.  To do so, see if there is a file
called .mh_profile in your home directory.  If you do, check to see if it
contains a line that starts with ``Current-Folder''.  If it does, then
you've been using version 4 or earlier of \fImh\fR; to convert to version
6, you must remove that line.  (Failure to do so causes spurious output to
stderr, which can hang \fIxmh\fR depending on your setup.)

If you do not already have a .mh_profile, you can create one (and
everything else you need) by typing ``inc'' to the shell.

For more information, refer to the \fImh (1)\fR documentation.

.SH RUNNING XMH
Run \fIxmh\fR as you would any other X application (e.g., xterm).  It will
accept a command-line display (of the form ``-display host:dpy'');
the default display is specified in the environment variable DISPLAY.

The rest of this document will probably be rather hard to follow without
actually running \fIxmh\fR and seeing the things being described.

.SH BASIC SCREEN LAYOUT
\fIXmh\fR starts out with a single screen.  There will be 4 areas on the screen:

.TP 4
.B \-
A collection of buttons for selecting commands.
.PP
.TP 4
.B \-
A list of your top level folders. 
(New users of mh will see only ``inbox'' here.)
Subfolders are listed in menus attached to the parent folder button.
.PP
.TP 4
.B \-
A list of the messages in one of your folders, called
the Table of Contents.  Initially, this will show the messages in ``inbox''.
.PP
.TP 4
.B \-
A view of one of your messages.  (Initially this is blank.)

.SH XMH AND THE ATHENA WIDGETS
\fIXmh\fR uses the X Toolkit Intrinsics and the Athena widget set.
Many of the features described below (scrollbars, buttonboxes, etc.) are
actually part of the Athena widget set, and are described here only for
completeness.  For more information, see the Athena widget documentation.

.SH SCROLLBARS
Some parts of the screen will have a vertical area on the left containing
a grey bar.  This area is a \fIscrollbar\fR.  They are used whenever the
data in a window takes up more space than can be displayed.
The grey bar indicates what portion of your data is visible. Thus, if the
entire length of the area is grey, then you are looking at all your data.
If only the first half is grey, then you are looking at the top half of
your data.

The message viewing area will have a horizontal scrollbar if the text
of the message is wider than the viewing area.

You can use the pointer in the scrollbar to change what part of the data is
visible.  If you click with the middle button, then the top of the grey
area will move to where the pointer is, and the corresponding
portion of data will be displayed.  If you hold down the middle button,
you can drag around the grey area.  This makes it easy to get to the top
of the data: just press with the middle, drag off the top of the
scrollbar, and release.

If you click with button 1, then the data to the right of the
pointer will scroll to the top of the window.  If you click with pointer
button 3, then the data at the top of the window will scroll down to where
the pointer is.

.SH BUTTONBOXES
Any area consisting of many words or short phrases, each enclosed in a
box, is called a \fIbuttonbox\fR.  Each box is actually a button that you
can press by moving the pointer onto it and pressing pointer button 1.
If a given buttonbox has more buttons in it than can fit, it will
be displayed with a scrollbar, so you can always scroll to the button you
want.

.SH ADJUSTING THE RELATIVE SIZES OF AREAS ON THE SCREEN
If you're not satisfied with the size of the various areas on the screen,
they can easily be changed.  Near the right edge of the border between
each region is a black box, called a \fIgrip\fR.  Simply point to that
grip with the pointer, press a pointer button, drag up or down, and
release.  Exactly what happens depends on which pointer button you press.

If you drag with the middle button, then only that border will move.  This
mode is simplest to understand, but is the least useful.

If you drag with pointer button 1, then you are adjusting the size of
the window above.  \fIXmh\fR will attempt to compensate by adjusting some
window below it.

If you drag with pointer button 3, then you are adjusting the size
of the window below.  \fIXmh\fR will attempt to compensate by adjusting
some window above it.

All windows have a mininum and maximum size; you will never be allowed to
move a border past the point where it would make a window have an invalid
size.

.SH SELECTED FOLDER
The selected folder is whichever foldername is highlighted in the top
title bar.  Note that this is not necessarily the same folder that is
being viewed.  The viewed foldername is in the second titlebar.
To change the selected folder, just press on the desired folder button.
If that folder has subfolders, a menu of the subfolders will pop up.

.SH GENERAL COMMANDS AND FOLDER COMMANDS
The first command menu contains commands of a global nature:

.TP 8
.B Open Folder
Display the data in the selected folder.  Thus, the selected folder also
becomes the viewed folder.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Open Folder in New Window
Creates a new screen, and displays the selected folder in that screen.
Note, however, that you may not display the same folder in more than one
screen at a time.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Create Folder
Create a new folder.  You will be prompted for a name for the new folder;
to enter the name, point the pointer at the blank box provided and type.
Subfolders are creating by specifying the parent folder, a slash, and the
subfolder name.  For example, 
to create a folder named ``xmh'' which is a subfolder of an existing folder
named ``clients'', type ``clients/xmh''.
Click on the Okay button when finished, or just type Return;
click on Cancel to cancel this operation.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Delete Folder
Destroy the selected folder.  You will be asked to confirm this action (see
CONFIRMATION WINDOWS).
.PP
.TP 8
.B Close Window
Exits \fIxmh\fR, after first checking that you won't lose any changes.

.SH HIGHLIGHTED MESSAGES, SELECTED MESSAGES
.SH AND THE CURRENT MESSAGE
It is possible to highlight a set of messages in the list of messages for the
viewed folder.  To highlight a message, just click on it with pointer button 1.
To highlight a range of messages, click on the first one with
pointer button 1 and on the last one with pointer button 3.

The selected messages are the same as the highlighted messages, if any.  If no
messages are highlighted, then the selected messages are considered the same
as the current message.

The current message is indicated by a '+' next to the message number.  It
usually corresponds to the message currently being viewed. 

.SH TABLE OF CONTENTS COMMANDS
The second command menu, \fITable of Contents\fP,
contains commands which operate on the currently viewed folder.

.TP 8
.B Incorporate New Mail
Add any new mail received to your inbox folder, and set the current
message to be the first new message.  (This button is selectable only if
``inbox'' is the folder being viewed.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B Commit Changes
Execute any deletions, moves, and copies that have been marked in this
folder.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Pack Folder
Renumber the messages in this folder so they start with 1 and increment by
1.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Sort Folder
Sort the messages in this folder in chronological order.  As a side
effect, this also packs the folder.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Force Rescan
Rebuild the list of messages.  This can be used whenever you suspect 
that \fIxmh\fR's
idea of what messages you have is wrong.  (In particular, this is necessary
if you ever change things using straight mh commands without using \fIxmh\fR.)

.SH MESSAGE COMMANDS
The third command menu contains commands which operate on the selected
message(s), or if there are no selected messages, the current message.

.TP 8
.B Compose Message
Composes a new message.  A new window will be brought up; for a
description of it, see COMPOSITION WINDOWS, below.
.PP
.TP 8
.B View Next Message
View the first selected message.  If no messages are highlighted, view the
current message.  If current message is already being viewed, view the
first unmarked message after the current message.
.PP
.TP 8
.B View Previous
View the last selected message.  If no messages are highlighted, view the
current message.  If current message is already being viewed, view the
first unmarked message before the current message.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Mark Deleted
Mark the selected messages for deletion.  If no messages are highlighted, then
this will automatically display the next unmarked message.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Mark Move
Mark the selected messages to be moved into the current folder.  (If the
current folder is the same as the viewed folder, this command will just
beep.)  If no messages are highlighted, then
this will automatically display the next unmarked message.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Mark Copy
Mark the selected messages to be copied into the current folder.  (If the
current folder is the same as the viewed folder, this command will just
beep.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B Unmark
Remove any of the above three marks from the selected messages.
.PP
.TP 8
.B View in New Window
Create a new window containing only a view of the first selected message.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Reply
Create a composition window in reply to the first selected message.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Forward
Create a composition window whose body is initialized to be the contents
of the selected messages.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Use as Composition
Create a composition window whose body is initialized to be this message.
Note that any changes you make in the composition will also be saved in
this message.  This function is meant to be used with the ``drafts'' folder
(see COMPOSITION WINDOWS).
.PP
.TP 8
.B Print
Print the selected messages.  \fIXmh\fR normally prints by invoking
the \fIenscript\fR(1) command, but you may change the command it uses.
(See CUSTOMIZING, below).

.SH SEQUENCE COMMANDS
The fourth command menu contains commands pertaining to message sequences,
and a list of message-sequences defined for the currently viewed folder.
(See MESSAGE-SEQUENCES.)

.TP 8
.B Pick Messages
Define a new message-sequence.
.PP
The following buttons will appear but will be sensitive only if
the current folder has any message-sequences defined.
.TP 8
.B Open Sequence
Change the viewed sequence to be the same as the selected sequence.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Add to Sequence
Add the selected messages to the selected sequence.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Remove from Sequence
Remove the selected messages from the selected sequence.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Delete Sequence
Remove the selected sequence entirely.  The messages themselves are
not affected; they simply are no longer grouped together as a message-sequence.

.SH VIEW COMMANDS
The commands in the \fIView\fP menu and in the buttonboxes of separate
view windows are the same as the message commands by the
same name, except instead of affecting the selected messages, they affect
the viewed message.  In addition there is the ``Edit View'' button, which
allows you to edit the message being viewed.  
The ``Save View'' button should be pressed to save your edits.

.SH COMPOSITION WINDOWS
Aside from the normal text editing functions, there are six command
buttons associated with composition windows:
.TP 8
.B Close Window
Close this composition window.  If changes have been made since the
most recent Save or Send, you will be asked to confirm losing them.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Send
Send this composition.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Reset
Replace the current composition with an empty message.  If changes have
been made since the most recent Send or Save, you will be
asked to confirm losing them.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Compose
Bring up another new composition window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Save Message
Save this composition in your drafts folder.  (If you do not have a folder
named ``drafts'', one will be created.)  Then you can safely close the
composition.  At some future date, you can continue working on the
composition by opening your drafts folder, selecting the message, and
using the ``Use as Composition'' command.  (See BUGS).
.PP
.TP 8
.B Insert
Insert a related message into the composition.  If the composition window
was created with a \fIReply\fP button, the related message is the message
being replied to, otherwise no related message is defined and this button
is inactive.  The message will be filtered before being inserted;
see \fBReplyInsertFilter\fP under CUSTOMIZING below.

.SH KEYBOARD ACCELERATORS
Keyboard accelerators are shortcuts for invoking commands from menus.

There are also mouse accelerators for other common actions:
Selecting a message from the table of contents with mouse button 2 will
also cause the message to be shown in the view area.
Selecting a folder with mouse button 2 will also open the folder.
Selection a folder with mouse button 3 will mark the current message
to be moved to the folder, without changing the selected or the viewed
folder.

\fIXmh\fP defines the following keyboard accelerators over the surface of
the main screen, except in the view area while editing a message:
.TP 12
.B Meta-I
Incorporate New Mail
.TP 12
.B Meta-C
Commit Changes
.TP 12
.B Meta-R
Force Rescan
.TP 12
.B Meta-P
Pack Folder
.TP 12
.B Meta-S
Sort Folder
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-space
View Next Message
.TP 12
.B Meta-c
Mark Copy
.TP 12
.B Meta-d
Mark Deleted
.TP 12
.B Meta-f
Forward
.TP 12
.B Meta-m
Mark Move
.TP 12
.B Meta-n
View Next Message
.TP 12
.B Meta-p
View Previous Message
.TP 12
.B Meta-r
Reply
.TP 12
.B Meta-u
Unmark	
.PP
In addition, there are keyboard accelerators for scrolling the message
and for scrolling the table of contents:
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-V
Scroll the table of contents forward.
.TP 12
.B Meta-V
Scroll the table of contents backward.
.TP 12
.B Control-v
Scroll the view forward.
.TP 12
.B Meta-v
Scroll the view backward.

.SH TEXT EDITING COMMANDS
All of the text editing commands are actually defined by the Text widget
in the X Toolkit Athena Widgets.
The commands may be bound to different keys than the defaults
described below through the standard X Toolkit key re-binding mechanisms.
See the X Toolkit and the Athena Widgets documentation for more details.

Whenever you are asked to enter any text, you will be using a standard
text editing interface.  Various control and meta keystroke combinations
are bound to a somewhat Emacs-like set of commands.  In addition, the
pointer buttons may be used to select a portion of text or to move the
insertion point in the text. Pressing pointer button 1 causes the
insertion point to move to the pointer.  Double-clicking
button 1 selects a word, triple-clicking selects a line, quadruple-clicking
selects a paragraph, and clicking rapidly five tiems selects
everything.  Any selection may be extended in
either direction by using pointer button 3.

In the following, a \fIline\fR refers to one displayed row of characters
in the window.  A \fIparagraph\fR refers to the text between carriage
returns.  Text within a paragraph is broken into lines for display based on the
current width of the window.
When a message is sent, text is broken into lines based upon the values
of the  \fBSendBreakWidth\fP and \fBSendWidth\fP resources (see
CUSTOMIZING XMH below).

The following keystroke combinations are defined:
.TP 12
.B Control-A
Move to the beginning of the current line.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-B, Control-H, Backspace
Move backward one character.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-D
Delete the next character.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-E 
Move to the end of the current line.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-F
Move forward one character.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-J, LineFeed
Create a new paragraph with the same indentation as the previous one.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-K
Kill the rest of this line.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-L
Refresh.  Repaint this window.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-M, Return
New paragraph.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-N
Move down to the next line.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-O
Break this paragraph into two.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-P
Move up to the previous line.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-V
Move down to the next screen-full of text.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-W
Kill the selected text.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-Y
Insert the last killed text.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Control-Z
Scroll the text one line up.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-<
Move to the beginning of the document.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta->
Move to the end of the document.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-[
Move backward one paragraph.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-]
Move forward one paragraph.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-B
Move backward one word.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-D
Kill the next word.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-F
Move forward one word.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-H, Meta-Delete
Kill the previous word.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-I
Insert a file.  A box will appear in which you can type the desired
filename.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-V
Move up to the previous screen-full of text.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-Y
Stuff the last selected text here.  Note that this can be text selected in
some other text subwindow.  Also, if you select some text in an xterm
window, it may be inserted in an \fIxmh\fR window with this command.
Pressing pointer button 2 is equivalent to this.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Meta-Z
Scroll the text one line down.
.PP
.TP 12
.B Delete
Delete the previous character.

.SH CONFIRMATION WINDOWS
Whenever you press a button that may cause you to lose some work or is
otherwise dangerous, a window will appear asking you to confirm the
action.  This window will contain an ``Abort'' or ``No''button and a
``Confirm'' or ``Yes''
button.  Pressing the ``No'' button cancels the operation, and pressing
the ``Yes'' will proceed with the operation. 

.SH MESSAGE-SEQUENCES
A mh message sequence is just a set of messages associated with some name.
They are local to a particular folder; two different folders can have
sequences with the same name.  In all folders, the sequence ``all'' is
predefined; it consists of the set of all messages in that folder.  (The
sequence ``cur'' is also usually defined for every folder; it consists of
only the current message.  \fIXmh\fR hides ``cur'' from the user, instead
placing a ``+'' by the current message.  Also, \fIxmh\fR does not support
the ``unseen'' sequence, so that one is also hidden from the user.)

The message sequences for a folder (including one for ``all'') are
displayed in the ``Sequence''menu, below the sequence commands.
The table of contents (also known as the ``toc'') is at any one time
displaying one message sequence.  This is called the ``viewed sequence'',
and its name will be displayed in the toc title bar just after the
folder name.  Also, at any time one of the sequences in the menu will
have a check mark next to it.  This is called the ``selected sequence''.
Note that the viewed sequence and the selected sequence are not necessarily
the same.  (This all pretty much corresponds to the way the folders work.)

The \fBOpen Sequence\fR, \fBAdd to Sequence\fR, \fBRemove from Sequence\fR,
and \fBDelete Sequence\fR commands are active only if the viewed folder
contains message-sequences.
.PP
Note that none of the above actually affect whether a message is in the
folder.  Remember that a sequence is a set of messages within the folder;
the above operations just affect what messages are in that set.

To create a new sequence, press the ``Pick'' button.  A new window will
appear, with lots of places to enter text. Basically, you can describe the
sequence's initial set of messages based on characteristics of the
message.  Thus, you can define a sequence to be all the messages that were
from a particular person, or with a particular subject, and so on.  You
can also connect things up with boolean operators, so you can select all
things from ``weissman'' with the subject ``xmh''.

Hopefully, the layout is fairly obvious.  The simplest cases are the
easiest: just point to the proper field and type.  If you enter in more
than one field, it will only select messages which match all non-empty
fields.

The more complicated cases arise when you want things that match one field
or another one, but not necessarily both.  That's what all the ``or''
buttons are for.  If you want all things with the subject ``xmh'' or
``xterm'', just press the ``or'' button next to the ``Subject:'' field.
Another box will appear where you can enter another subject.

If you want all things either from ``weissman'' or with subject ``xmh'', but
not necessarily both, select the ``-Or-'' button.  This will essentially
double the size of the form.  You can then enter ``weissman'' in a from: box
on the top half, and ``xmh'' in a subject: box on the lower part.

If you ever select the ``Skip'' button, then only those messages that
\fIdon't\fR match the fields on that row are included.

Finally, in the bottom part of the window will appear several more boxes.
One is the name of the sequence you're defining.  (It defaults to the name
of the selected sequence when ``Pick'' was pressed, or to ``temp'' if
``all'' was the selected sequence.)  Another box defines which sequence to
look through for potential members of this sequence; it defaults to the
viewed sequence when ``Pick'' was pressed.

Two more boxes define a date range; only messages within that date range
will be considered.  These dates must be entered in 822-style format: each
date is of the form ``dd mmm yy hh:mm:ss zzz'', where dd is a one or two
digit day of the month, mmm is the three-letter abbreviation for a month,
and yy is a year.  The remaining fields are optional: hh, mm, and ss
specify a time of day, and zzz selects a time zone.  Note that if the time
is left out, it defaults to midnight; thus if you select a range of ``7
nov 86'' - ``8 nov 86'', you will only get messages from the 7th, as all
messages on the 8th will have arrived after midnight.

``Date field'' specifies which date field in the header to look at for
this date range; it probably won't be useful to anyone.  If the sequence
you're defining already exists, you can optionally merge the old set with
the new; that's what the ``Yes'' and ``No'' buttons are all about.
Finally, you can ``OK'' the whole thing, or ``Cancel'' it.

In general, most people will rarely use these features.  However, it's
nice to occasionally use ``Pick'' to find some messages, look through
them, and then hit ``Delete Sequence'' to put things back in their original
state.

.SH CUSTOMIZING XMH
As with all standard X applications, \fIxmh\fR may be customized through 
entries in the resource manager.  Resource class names are listed below;
resource instance names are identical, except the first letter is in
lower case.  The following resource manager entries are defined:
.TP 8
.B BlockEventsOnBusy
Whether to disallow user input and show a busy cursor while \fIxmh\fP is
busy processing a command.  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B BusyCursor
The symbol representing the position of the mouse pointer, displayed if
BlockEventsOnBusy is true.  Default is a cursor which resembles a 
wrist watch.
.PP
.TP 8
.B BusyPointerColor
The foreground color of the busy cursor.  Default is XtDefaultForeground.
.PP
.TP 8
.B CheckNewMail
If True, \fIxmh\fP will check at regular intervals to see if new mail
has arrived for any of the folders.  A visual indication will be given
if new mail is waiting to be retrieved.  (Default is True.) (See BUGS).
.PP
.TP 8
.B CommandButtonCount
The number of command buttons to create in a button box inbetween the toc
and the view areas of the main screen.  \fIXmh\fP will create these buttons
with the names \fIbutton1, button2\fP and so on.  The user can specify labels
and actions for the buttons in a private resource file.
You may have to read the application default file to get the idea.
The default is 0.
.PP
.TP 8
.B CompGeometry
Initial geometry for windows containing compositions.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Cursor
The symbol used to represent the mouse pointer.  Default is left_ptr.
.PP
.TP 8
.B DraftsFolder
The folder used for message drafts.  (Default is ``drafts''.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B Geometry
Default geometry to use.  (Default is none.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B HideBoringHeaders
If ``on'', then \fIxmh\fR will attempt to skip uninteresting header lines
within messages by scrolling them off.  (Default is ``on''.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B InitialFolder
Which folder to display on startup.  May also be set with the command-line
option \fB-initial\fR.  (Default is ``inbox''.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B InitialIncFile
The file name of your incoming mail drop.  \fIxmh\fR tries to construct
a filename for the ``inc -file'' command, but in some installations
(e.g. those using the Post Office Protocol) no file is appropriate.
In this case, \fBInitialIncFile\fR should be specified as the empty string,
and \fIinc\fR will be invoked without a -file argument.
.PP
.TP 8
.B MailPath
The full path prefix for locating your mail folders.  May also be set
with the command-line option, \fB-path\fR. (Default is the
``Path'' component in $HOME/.mh_profile, or ``$HOME/Mail'' if none.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B MailWaitingFlag
If True, \fIxmh\fP will attempt to set an indication in it's icon when
new mail is waiting to be retrieved.  If this option is True, then
CheckNewMail is assumed to be True as well.  The \fB-flag\fP command line
option is a quick way to turn MailWaitingFlag on.
.PP
.TP 8
.B MhPath
What directory in which to find the mh commands.  If a command isn't found
here, then the directories in the user's path are searched.  (Default is
``/usr/local/mh6''.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B PickGeometry
Initial geometry for pick windows.
.PP
.TP 8
.B PointerColor
The foreground color of the pointer.  Default is XtDefaultForeground.
.PP
.TP 8
.B PrefixWmAndIconName
Whether to prefix the window and icon name with "xmh: ".  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B PrintCommand
What sh command to execute to print a message.  Note that stdout and stderr
must be specifically redirected!  If a message or range of messages is
selected for printing, the full file paths of each message file is
appended to the specified print command.   (Default is ``enscript >/dev/null
2>/dev/null'').
.PP
.TP 8
.B ReplyInsertFilter
A shell command to be executed when the \fIInsert\fP button is activated
in a composition window.  The full path and filename of the source
message is added to the end of the command before being passed to \fIsh\fP(1).
The default filter is \fIecho\fP; i.e. it merely inserts the
name of the file into the composition.  Other interesting filters are
\fIawk -e '{print "    " $0}'\fP or
\fI/usr/new/mh.6.5/lib/mhl -form mhl.body\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SendBreakWidth
When a message is sent from \fIxmh\fP, lines longer than this value will be
split into multiple lines, each of which is no longer than \fBSendWidth\fP.
This value may be overridden for a single message by inserting an additional
line in the message header of the form \fISendBreakWidth: value\fP.  This
line will be removed from the header before the message is sent.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SendWidth
When a message is sent from \fIxmh\fP, lines longer than \fBSendBreakWidth\fP
characters will be split into multiple lines, each of which is no longer than
this value.
This value may be overridden for a single message by inserting an additional
line in the message header of the form \fISendWidth: value\fP.  This
line will be removed from the header before the message is sent.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SkipCopied
Whether to skip over messages marked for copying when using ``View Next
Message'' and ``View Previous Message''.  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SkipDeleted
Whether to skip over messages marked for deletion when using ``View Next
Message'' and ``View Previous Message''.  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B SkipMoved
Whether to skip over messages marked for moving to other folders when
using ``View Next Message'' and ``View Previous Message''.  Default is true.
.PP
.TP 8
.B TempDir
Directory for \fIxmh\fR to store temporary directories.  For privacy, a user
might want to change this to a private directory.  (Default is ``/tmp''.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B TocGeometry
Initial geometry for master \fIxmh\fR windows.
.PP
.TP 8 
.B TocPercentage
The percentage of the main screen that is used to display the Table of 
Contents.  Default is 33.
.PP
.TP 8
.B TocWidth
How many characters to generate for each message in a folder's table of
contents.  (Default is 100.  Use 80 if you plan to use \fImhl\fR a lot.)
.PP
.TP 8
.B ViewGeometry
Initial geometry for windows showing only a view of a message.
.PP
If TocGeometry, ViewGeometry, CompGeometry, or PickGeometry are not
specified, then the value of Geometry is used instead.  If the resulting
height is not specified (e.g., "", "=500", "+0-0"), then the default
height is calculated from the fonts and line counts specified above.  If
the width is not specified (e.g., "", "=x300", "-0+0), then half of the
display width is used.  If unspecified, the height of a pick window
defaults to half the height of the display.

Any of these options may also be specified on the command line by
using the standard X Toolkit resource specification mechanism.
Thus, to run \fIxmh\fR showing all message headers,

% xmh -xrm '*HideBoringHeaders:off'

.PP
The initial text displayed in a composition window is generated by
executing the corresponding \fImh\fP command; i.e. \fIcomp\fP, \fIrepl\fP,
or \fIforw\fP and therefore message components may be customized as
specified for those commands.  \fIComp\fP is executed only once per
invocation of \fIxmh\fP and the message template is re-used for each
successive new composition.

.SH FILES
~/Mail

~/.mh_profile

.SH SEE ALSO
X(1), xrdb(1), X Toolkit, mh(1) - the mh Message Handler

.SH BUGS

Saving a message from the Drafts folder edited by ``Use As Composition''
will overwrite the current message, whether or not the current message
is the message originally selected for editing.

The initial folder and initial inc folder cannot be subfolders.

Exits if a message or a folder has been deleted through the \fImh\fR
interface since \fIxmh\fP started.

There isn't any indication that you have new mail.

Printing support is minimal.

The default insert filter for replies is useless.

Should handle the ``unseen'' message-sequence.

Should determine by itself if the user hasn't used \fImh\fR before, and
offer to set things up for him or her.

Still a few commands missing (rename folder, remail message).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Digital Equipment Corporation.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Terry Weissman, Digital Western Research Laboratory

