.\" $NCDId: @(#)fs.man,v 1.3 1991/07/09 14:15:59 lemke Exp $
.TH FS 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
fs \- X font server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "fs"
[\-s \fIserver_number\fP]
[-cf \fIconfiguration_file\fP]
[-p \fItcp_port\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Fs
is the X Window System font server.  It supplies fonts to X Window
System display servers.
.SH "STARTING THE SERVER"
The server is usually run by a system administrator, and started via 
boot files like \fI/etc/rc.local\fR.  Users may also wish to start
private font servers for specific sets of fonts.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP 8
.B \-s server_number
Specifies the TCP port (offset from the default 7000) that the
server will listen for requests.
.TP 8
.B \-cf configuration_file
Specifies the configuration file the font server will use.
.TP 8
.B \-p tcp_port
Specifies the TCP port number on which the server will listen for connections.
.SH "SIGNALS"
.SH "SIGNALS"
.TP 8
.I SIGTERM
This causes the font server to exit cleanly.
.TP 8
.I SIGUSR1
This signal is used to cause the server to re-read its configuration file.
.I SIGUSR2
This signal is used to cause the server to flush any cached data it
may have.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The configuration language is a basic keyword value list.
Each keyword is followed by an '=' and then the desired value.
.PP
Recognized keywords include:
.sp
.ta .6i 1.5i
.nf
#		in the first column, a comment character
.sp
.\" cache-size (cardinal) 
.\" 		Size in bytes of the font server cache.
.sp
catalogue (list of string)
		Ordered list of font path element names.
.sp
alternate-servers (list of string)
		List of alternate servers for this font server.
.sp
client-limit (cardinal)
		Number of clients this font server will support 
		before refusing service.  This is useful for tuning 
		the load on each individual font server.
.sp
clone-self (boolean)
 		Whether this font server should attempt to clone itself
 		when it reachs the client-limit.
.sp
default-point-size (cardinal)
		The default pointsize (in decipoints) for fonts that 
		don't specify.
.sp
default-resolutions (list of resolutions)
		Resolutions the server supports by default.
		This information may be used as a hint for 
		pre-rendering, and substituted for scaled fonts 
		which do not specify a resolution.
.sp
error-file (string)
		Filename of the error file.  All warnings and errors
		will be logged here.
.sp
port (cardinal)
		TCP port on which the server will listen for connections.
.sp
use-syslog (boolean)
		Whether syslog(3) (on supported systems) is to be used 
		for errors.
.\" .sp
.\" trusted-clients (list of string)
.\" 		Those clients the fontserver will talk to.  Others
.\" 		will be refused for the initial connection.  An empty
.\" 		list means the server will talk to any client.
.fi
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
#
# sample font server configuration file
#

# allow a max of 10 clients to connect to this font server
client-limit = 10

# when a font server reaches its limit, start up a new one
clone-self = on

# alternate font servers for clients to use
alternate-servers = hansen:7001,hansen:7002

# where to look for fonts
# the first is a set of Speedo outlines, the second is a set of 
# misc SNF bitmaps and the last is a set of 100dpi PCF bitmaps
#
catalogue = speedo:/usr/lib/fonts/speedo,
	snf:/usr/lib/X11/ncd/fonts/misc,
	pcf:/usr/lib/X11/ncd/fonts/100dpi/

# in 12 points, decipoints
default-point-size = 120

# 100 x 100 and 75 x 75
default-resolutions = 100,100,75,75
.fi
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), \fIFont server implementation overview\fB
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Network Computing Devices, Inc
Copyright 1991, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Dave Lemke, Network Computing Devices, Inc
Keith Packard, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
