.TH XSERVER 1 "1 March 1988"  "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
X - X Window System server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B X
[:displaynumber] [-option ...] [ttyname]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I X
is the generic name for the X Window System server.  It is frequently a link
or a copy of the appropriate server binary for driving the most frequently
used server on a given machine.  The sample server from MIT supports the
following platforms:
.sp
.ta 1.25in
.in +4
.nf
Xqvss	Digital monochrome vaxstationII or II
Xqdss	Digital color vaxstationII or II
Xsun	Sun monochrome or color Sun 2, 3, or 4
Xhp	HP Topcat 9000s300
Xapollo	Apollo monochrome (Domain/IX 9.6)
Xibm	IBM APA and megapel PC/RT
XmacII	Apple monochrome Macintosh II
Xplx	Parallax color and video graphics controller
.fi
.in -4
.SH "STARTING THE SERVER"
The server is usually started from the X Display Manager program \fIxdm\fP.
This utility is run from the system boot files and takes care of keeping
the server running, prompting for usernames and passwords, and starting up
the user sessions.  It is easily configured for sites that wish to provide
nice, consistent interfaces for novice users (loading convenient sets of
resources, starting up a window manager, clock, and nice selection of 
terminal emulator windows).
.PP
Since \fIxdm\fP now handles automatic starting of the server in a portable
way, the \fI-L\fP option to \fIxterm\fP is now considered obsolete.  Support
for starting a login window from 4.3bsd-derived \fI/etc/ttys\fP files
may not be included in future releases.
.PP
Installations that run more than one window system will still need to use the
\fIxinit\fP utility.  However, \fIxinit\fP is to be considered a tool for
building startup scripts and is not intended for use by end users.  Site
adminstrators are \fBstrongly\fP urged to build nicer interfaces for novice
users.
.PP
When the sample server starts up, it takes over the display.  If you 
are running on a workstation whose console is the display, you cannot log into
the console while the server is running.
.SH "NETWORK CONNECTIONS"
The sample server supports connections made using the following reliable
byte-streams:
.TP 4
.B TCP\/IP
.br
The server listens on port htons(6000+n), where n is the display number.
.TP 4
.B "Unix Domain"
The file name for the socket is X_UNIX_PATHn where X_UNIX_PATH
is a configuration parameter (/tmp/.X11-unix/X in the standard release) and
"n" is the display number.
.TP 4
.B "DECnet"
.br
The server responds to connections to object ``X$Xn'', where "n''
is the display number.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options can be given on the command line to any X server, usually
when it is
started by \fIinit(1)\fP using information stored in the file \fI/etc/ttys\fP.
(see \fIttys(5)\fP for details):
.TP 8
.B \-a \fInumber\fP
sets pointer acceleration (i.e. the ratio of how much is reported to how much
the user actually moved the pointer).
.TP 8
.B \-c
turns off key-click.
.TP 8
.B c \fIvolume\fP
sets key-click volume (allowable range: 0-8).
.TP 8
.B \-f \fIvolume\fP
sets feep (bell) volume (allowable range: 0-7).
.TP 8
.B \-logo
turns on the X Window System logo display in the screen-saver.
There is currently no way to change this from a client.
.TP 8
.B nologo
turns off the X Window System logo display in the screen-saver.
There is currently no way to change this from a client.
.TP 8
.B \-p \fIminutes\fP
sets screen-saver pattern cycle time in minutes.
.TP 8
.B \-r
turns off auto-repeat.
.TP 8
.B r
turns on auto-repeat.
.TP 8
.B \-s \fIminutes\fP
sets screen-saver timeout time in minutes.
.TP 8
.B \-t \fInumbers\fP
sets pointer acceleration threshold in pixels (i.e. after how many pixels
pointer acceleration should take effect).
.TP 8
.B \-to \fIseconds\fP
sets default screensaver timeout in seconds.
.TP 8
.B v
sets video-on screen-saver preference.
.TP 8
.B \-v
sets video-off screen-saver preference
.TP 8
.B \-co \fIfilename\fP
sets name of RGB color database
.TP 8
.B \-help
prints a usage message
.TP 8
.B \-fp \fIfontPath
sets the search path for fonts
.TP 8
.B \-fc \fIcursorFont\fP
sets default cursor font
.TP 8
.B \-fn \fIfont\fP
sets the default font
.TP 8
.B \-wm
forces the default backing-store of all windows to be WhenMapped;
a cheap trick way of getting backing-store to apply to all windows.
.PP
Specific servers may have additional command line options.
.SH "SECURITY"
.I X
uses an access control list for deciding whether or not to accept a
connection from a given cleint.  This list
initially consists of the machine on which the server is running, and any
hosts listed in the file
\fI/etc/Xn.hosts\fP
(where \fIn\fP is the display number).  This file should contain one line
per host name, with no white space.  If a name ends in ``::'', it is assumed
to be a DECnet host, otherwise it is interpreted as an Internet host.
.PP
The user can manipulate a dynamic form of this list in the server
using the \fIxhost(1)\fP program from
the same machine as the server.
.PP
Unlike some window systems, \fIX\fP does not have any notion of 
window operation permissions or
place any restrictions on what a client can do; if
a program can connect to a display, it has full run of the screen.  There
is support for using 
authentication services on connection startup beyond the simple host name
check, but it is not used in the standard distribution.
.SH "SIGNALS"
.I X
will catch the SIGHUP signal sent by the display manager when the user's main
program exits.
This signal causes all connections to be closed,
all resources to be freed, and all defaults restored.
.SH "FONTS"
Fonts are stored in individual files in the directories named by
the font search path.  These files are created from Bitmap Description Format
(BDF) textual descriptions using the \fIbdftosnf\fP and \fImkfontdir\fP
utilities.  Font names are
translated into file names using the \fIfonts.dir\fP file created by
\fImkfontdir\fP.  \fBUnlike previous releases, if a directory in the font path
doesn't have a \fIfonts.dir\fP, the server will not be able to find any fonts
in that directory.\fP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Too numerous to list them all.
If run from \fIinit(8)\fP, errors are logged in the file \fI/usr/adm/X*msgs\fP,
.SH FILES
.TP 30
/etc/X*.hosts
Initial access control list
.TP 30
/usr/lib/X11/fonts
Font directory
.TP 30
/usr/lib/X11/rgb.txt
Color database
.TP 30
/tmp/.X11-unix/X*
Unix domain socket
.TP 30
/usr/adm/X*msgs
Error log file
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), xdm(1), mkfontdir(1),
xinit(1), xterm(1), uwm(1), xhost(1), xset(1), xsetroot(1), 
ttys(5), init(8), Xqdss(1), Xqvss(1), Xsun(1), Xapollo(1), XmacII(1)
.I "X Window System Protocol,"
.I "Definition of the Porting Layer for the X v11 Sample Server,"
.I "Strategies for Porting the X v11 Sample Server,"
.I "Godzilla's Guide to Porting the X V11 Sample Server"
.SH BUGS
The option syntax is inconsistent with itself and \fIxset(1)\fP.
.PP
The acceleration option should take a numerator and a denominator like the
protocol.
.PP
If
.I X
dies before its clients, new clients won't be able to connect until all
existing connections have their TCP TIME_WAIT timers expire.
.PP
The color database is missing a large number of colors.  However, there
doesn't seem to be a better one available that can generate RGB values.
.PP
The \fIxterm -L\fP method for starting an initial window from \fI/etc/ttys\fP
is completely inadequate and should be removed.  People should use \fIxdm\fP
instead.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
The sample server was originally written by
Susan Angebranndt, Raymond Drewry, Philip Karlton, and Todd Newman,
with support from a cast of thouands.  See also the \fIdoc/contributors\fP
file.
