.TH xedit 1X
.SH NAME
xedit - X Toolkit-based text editor
.SH SYNTAX
\fBxedit\fR [ \fIgeometry\fP ]  [ \fIdisplay\fR ] [ \fIfile\fP ]
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIgeometry\fR 15
Specifies the width, length, and location of
the
.B xedit
window.
If the geometry argument is not specified,
.B xedit
uses mouse input.

The geometry argument has the format
\fB=\fR[\fIwidth\fR][x\fIlength\fR][\fIx\fR][\fIy\fR].
.RS
.IP \fIwidth\fR 15
Specifies the number of pixels of the window's horizontal dimension.
.IP \fIlength\fR
Specifies the number of pixels of the window's vertical dimension.
.IP \fIx\fR
Specifies the x screen coordinate (pixel value)
for the starting corner of the window.
.IP \fIy\fR
Specifies the y screen coordinate (pixel value)
for the starting corner of the
window.
.PP
Depending on which corner of the screen each is relative to,
the x and y coordinates
must be preceded by a plus (+) or a minus (\-).
For more information about the screen coordinate system,
see
.MS X 1X .
.RE
.IP "\fIdisplay\fR" 15
Specifies the display screen on which
.B xedit
displays its window.
If the display argument is not specified,
.B xedit
uses the display screen specified by your DISPLAY environment variable.
The display argument has the format \fIhostname\fP\^:\^\fInumber\fP.
Using \fB::\fP instead of \fB:\fP
indicates that DECNET is to be used for transport.
.RS
.IP \fIhostname\fP 15
Specifies the name of the host machine on which the
display is connected.
You can specify the name 
the name
.B unix 
or leave the field blank
to use UNIX IPC,
or the name of your host machine to use TCP.
.IP \fInumber\fP 15
Specifies the number of the display on that host machine.
.RE
.PP
.RS 15
The default is \fB:0\fP.
.RE
.IP "\fIfile\fR" 15
Specifies the file that is to be loaded during start-up.
If a file is not specified,
.B xedit
lets you load a file or create a new file after it has started up.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B xedit
text editor is an X Toolkit-based window-oriented text editor.
At start-up,
.B xedit
provides a window that consists of the following three areas:
.IP "Commands Menu" 25
Lists editing commands (for example, \fBUndo\fP or \fBSearch\fP).
.IP "Message Window"
Displays
.B xedit
messages.
In addition, this window can be used as a scratch pad.
.IP "Edit Window"
Displays the text of the file that you are editing or creating.
.SH COMMANDS
.IP "Quit" 25
Quits the current editing session.
If any changes have not been saved,
.B xedit 
displays a warning message and allows you to save the file.
.IP "Save"
Stores a copy of the original, unedited file in \fIfile\fR.BAK. 
Then, overwrites the original file with the edited contents.
.IP "Edit"
Allows the text displayed in the Edit window to be edited.
.IP "Load"
Loads the specified file and displays it in the Edit window.
.IP "Undo"
Undoes the last edit only.
.IP "More"
Undoes each edit previous to the last edit,
which must first be undone with the 
.B Undo
command.
.IP "Jump"
Advances the cursor from the beginning of the file to the text line
that corresponds to the selected line number.
.IP "<<"
Searches from the cursor back to the beginning of the file for the string
entered in the Search input box.
If you do not enter a string in the Search input box,
.B xedit
automatically copies the last string that you selected from any
X application into the Search input box and searches for that string.
.IP "Search >>"
Searches from the cursor forward to the end of the file for the string
entered in the search input box.
If you do not enter a string in the Search input box,
.B xedit
automatically copies the last string that you selected from any
X application into the Search input box and searches for that string.
.IP "Replace"
Replaces the last searched-for string
with the string specified in the Replace input box.
If no string has been previously searched for,
searches from the insert cursor to the end of the file 
for the next occurrence of the search string and highlights it.
.IP "All"
Repositions the cursor at the beginning of the file and replaces all 
occurrences of the search string with the string specified in the 
Replace input box.
.SH RESTRICTIONS
Large numbers of certain edit functions (for example, Undo or More)
tend to degrade performance over
time.
If there is a noticeable decrease in response time,
save and reload the file.
.SH X DEFAULTS
.LP
Like most X-based applications,
.B xedit
reads the \fB.Xdefaults\fR file during start-up
and uses the appropriate resource specification to customize the appearance 
or characteristics of its displayed
.B xedit
window.
The format for a resource
specification in the \fB.Xdefaults\fP file is:
.sp
.DS
.TA 2.5i
.ta 2.5i
[\^\fIname\fP.\^]\^\fIresource\fR\^:	\fIvalue\fR
.DE
.IP \fIname\fR 1i
Specifies the application name or, in the case of X Toolkit-based applications,
the name string that restricts the resource assignment to
that application or to a component of an application.
If this argument is not specified,
the resource assignment is globally available to all X applications.
.IP \fIresource\fR 1i
Specifies the X resource.
.IP \fIvalue\fR 1i
Specifies the value that is to be assigned to the resource.
.LP
Because each X Toolkit-based application can consist of a combination of
widgets (for example, command buttons and a scroll bar),
the name string
can be formed by adding widget class and name identifiers 
to the string.
For further information about adding class and name identifiers,
see the \fIGuide to the xedit Editor\fP.
.PP
For
.B xedit,
the available class identifiers are:
.sp
.nf
ButtonBox
Command
Scrollbar
Text   
.fi
.PP
For
.B xedit,
the available name identifiers are:
.sp
.nf
All
Edit
EditWindow
Jump
Load
MessageWindow
More
Quit
Replace
Save
Undo
xedit
.fi
.sp
.LP
For
.B xedit,
the available resources are:
.IP EnableBackups 22
Specifies that,
when edits made to an existing file are saved,
.B xedit
is to copy the original version of that file to \fIfile\fR.BAK 
before it saves the changes.
If the value of this option is specified as off, 
a backup file is not created.
.IP background
Specifies the background color to be displayed in command buttons.
The default is white.
.IP border
Specifies the border color of the 
.B xedit
window.
.IP borderWidth
Specifies the border width, in pixels, of the 
.B xedit
window.
.IP font
Specifies the font displayed in the
.B xedit
window.
.IP foreground
Specifies the foreground color of the
.B xedit
window.
The default is black.
.IP geometry
Specifies the geometry (window size and screen location)
to be used as the default for the 
.B xedit
window.
For information about the format of the geometry specification,
see ARGUMENTS.
.IP internalHeight
Specifies the internal horizontal padding (spacing between text and button
border) for command buttons.
.IP internalWidth
Specifies the internal vertical padding (spacing between text and button
border) for command buttons.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
.LP
Each specification included in the \f(TR.XtActions\fP file
modifies a key setting
for the editor that
.B xedit
uses.
When defining key specifications,
the following resource specification must be placed in your \f(TR\.Xdefaults\fP
file.
.EX
text.EventBindings:     .XtActions
.EE
.LP
Each key specification assigns an editor command to a named
key and/or mouse combination and has the format:
.sp
.DS
.TA .5i 1.5i
.ta .5i 1.5i
\fIkey\fP\^:	\fIfunction\fR
.DE
.sp
.IP \fIkey\fR 15
Specifies the key or mouse button that is used to invoke the named function.
.IP \fIfunction\fR
Specifies the function to be invoked when the named key is pressed.
.LP
For more information about specifications in the
.B .XtActions
file,
see
.MS X 1X .
.SH FILES
~/.Xdefaults
.br
~/.XtActions
.br
/usr/lib/.Xdefaults
.br
/usr/lib/.XtActions
.SH SEE ALSO
X(1X)
