.TH XCLIPBOARD 1 "23 October 1988" "X Version 11"
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.SH NAME
xclipboard - X clipboard client
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxclipboard\fP [ \fI-toolkitoption\fP ...] [-w] [-nw]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxclipboard\fP program is used to collect and display text selections 
that are sent to the CLIPBOARD by other clients.  It is typically used to
gather together and hold a block of text that has been selected from
a variety of different places.
.PP
Since \fIxclipboard\fP uses a Text Widget to display the contents of the 
clipboard, text sent to the CLIPBOARD may be re-selected
for use in other applications.
.PP
An \fIxclipboard\fP window has the following buttons across the top:
.TP 8
.I quit
When this button is pressed, \fIxclipboard\fP exits.
.TP 8
.I erase
When this button is pressed, the contents of the text window are erased.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fIxclipboard\fP program accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command 
line options as well as the following:
.TP 8
.B \-w
This option indicates that lines of text that are too long to be displayed on
one line in the clipboard should wrap around to the following lines.
.TP 8
.B \-nw
This option indicates that long lines of text should not wrap around.
.SH WIDGETS
The widgets used by xclipboard are listed below.  Widgets are listed by
name and class.  Consult the \fIX Toolkit Athena Widgets\fP or the \fPX Toolkit
Intrinsics\fP for the each widget's list of settable resources.
.sp
.Ds 5
.TA .5i 1.0i 1.5i
.ta .5i 1.0i 1.5i
xclipboard - XClipboard
	form - Form
		quit  - Command
		erase - Command
		text  - Text
.De
.SH SENDING TO CLIPBOARD
Text is copied to the clipboard whenever a client asserts ownership of
the \fBCLIPBOARD\fP selection.  Examples of event bindings that a user
may wish to include in his/her resource configuration file to use
the clipboard are:
.sp
.Ds 5
.TA .5i
.ta .5i 3.0i
*VT100.Translations: #override \\
	Button1 <Btn2Down>:	select-end(CLIPBOARD) \\n\\
	Button1 <Btn2Up>:	ignore()

*Text.Translations: #override \\
	Button1 <Btn2Down>:	extend-end(CLIPBOARD)
.De
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), xcutsel(1), xterm(1), individual client documentation for how to make a 
selection and send it to the CLIPBOARD.
.SH FILES
/usr/lib/X11/app-defaults/XClipboard - specifies required resources
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph R. Swick, DEC/MIT Project Athena
.br
