.TH XCUTSEL 1 "14 October 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xcutsel - convert cut buffer to selection
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxcutsel\fP [ \fI-toolkitoption\fP ...] [-atom \fIselection\fP] [-buffer #]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIxcutsel\fP program is used to copy the current selection into a
cut buffers and to make a selection that contains the current contents of
the cut buffer.  It acts as a bridge between applications that don't support
selections and those that do.
.PP
By default, \fIxcutsel\fP will use the selection named PRIMARY and the cut
buffer CUT_BUFFER_0.  Either or both of these can be overridden by command
line arguments or by resources.
.PP
An \fIxcutsel\fP window contains three buttons:
.TP 8
.I "    quit"
When this button is pressed, \fIxcutsel\fP exits.  Any selections held by
\fIxcutsel\fP are automatically released.
.TP 8
.I "    cut->sel"
When this button is pressed, \fIxcutsel\fP converts the current contents of
the cut buffer into a selection.
.TP 8
.I "    sel->cut"
When this button is pressed, \fIxcutsel\fP copies the current selection into
the cut buffer.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xcutsel
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options as well as the
following:
.TP 8
.B \-selection \fIname\fP
This option specifies the name of the selection to use.  The default is
PRIMARY.
.TP 8
.B \-buffer \fInumber\fP
This option specifies the cut buffer to use.  The default is cut buffer 0.
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program accepts all of the standard X Toolkit resource names and classes
as well as:
.TP 8
.B "selection (\fPclass\fB Selection)"
This resource specifies the name of the selection to use.  The default is
PRIMARY.
.TP 8
.B "buffer (\fPclass\fB Buffer)"
This resource specifies the number of the cut buffer to use.  The default is 0.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), xterm(1), text widget documentation
.SH BUGS
There is no way to change the name of the selection or the number of the
cut buffer while the program is running.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Ralph R. Swick, DEC/MIT Project Athena
