.TH XCLOCK 1 "1 March 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xclock - X Window System, analog / digital clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xclock
[-option ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xclock 
is the
.I X
window system clock.
.I Xclock
continuously  displays  the  current  time of day.  The user is given a
choice of either an analog or a digital display (of  course  there  is
nothing  precluding  the  user  from  having more than one clock).  It
creates a window and displays the time in the chosen format.
.SH OPTIONS
This program accepts all standard X toolkit options along with its own
specific options shown below.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-analog 
Use analog display mode (the default).  Draw a conventional 12 hour
clock face with ``ticks'' for each minute and stroke marks on each hour.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIcolor\fP
Determines the color of the background.
The default color is ``white''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIcolor\fP
Determines the color of the border.
The default color is ``black''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIpixels\fP
Specify the width in pixels of the border around the
.I xclock
window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-digital
Use  digital  display  mode.   Display the date and time in
digital format.  The default is analog  mode.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIcolor\fP
Determines the color of the text in digital mode and the
tick marks in analog mode.
The default color is ``black''.
On monochrome displays this is ignored.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-hd \fIcolor\fP
Determines the color of the hands of the clock.
This is ignored on monchrome displays.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-fn \fIfont\fP
The specified
.I font
will be used as the output font in digital mode.
Any fixed width font may be used, the default is ``6x10''.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-help
Display a brief summary of
.I xclock's
calling syntax and options.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-hl \fIcolor\fP
Determines the color of the hands in analog mode.
The default is to make them the same as the foreground color.
On monochrome displays this is ignored.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-offset [\fI-\fP]\fIhours\fP[:\fIminutes\fP]
Gives a time offset to add to (or subtract from) the system time.  This
may be used to display a clock for a timezone other than the current one.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-padding \fIpixels\fP
Specify the width in pixels of the padding ``white space''
between the window border and anything
.I xclock
displays.  The default padding is 10 in digital mode and 8 in analog mode.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-rv
This is a standard X toolkit option.
The foreground and background colors are reversed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-update \fIseconds\fP
Specify the frequency in seconds with which
.I xclock
updates its display.  If the
.I xclock
window is obscured and then exposed,
.I xclock
will override this setting  and  redisplay  immediately.   The  default
update  frequency  is  60  seconds.   The  specification  of an update
frequency greater than 30 seconds disables the display of  the  second
hand in analog mode.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-chime
Cause the clock to ``chime'' once on the half hour and twice on the hour.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fP
This is standard X toolkit command line option.
The clock window is created with the specified
size according to the geometry specification.
See \fIX(1)\fP for details.
In digital mode if you do not specify either height and width they are
determined  by  the font in use.  In analog mode if you do not specify
either width or height they default to 164.  The  default  offset  for
any unspecified offset is -0.  All values are in pixels.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIhost\fP:\fIdisplay\fP
This is a standard X toolkit command line option.
Normally,
.I xclock
gets  the host and display number to use from the environment variable
``DISPLAY''.  One can, however specify them explicitly.
The
.I host
specifies which machine to create the
.I xclock
window on, and
the
.I display
argument specifies the display number.
For example,
``mit-frobozz:1'' creates an
.I xclock
on display one on the machine mit-frobozz.  If the host is omitted the
local  host  is  assumed.   If  the  display  is omitted, display 0 is
assumed, the ``:'' is necessary in either case.
.TP 8
.B \-xrm \fIresourcestring\fP
This is a standard X toolkit command line option that allows you pass in 
resource manager lines as they would appear in your resources file (as used
by 
.I xrdb
or the XENVIRONMENT environment variable).
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program uses the 
.I Clock
widget in the X Toolkit.  It understands all of the core resource names and
classes as well as:
.PP
.TP 8
.B width (class Width)
Specifies the width of the clock.
.TP 8
.B height (class Height)
Specifies the height of the clock.
.TP 8
.B update (class Interval)
Specifies the frequency in seconds at which the time should be redisplayed.
.TP 8
.B foreground (class Foreground)
Specifies the color for the tic marks.  Using the class specifies the
color for all things that normally would appear in the foreground color.
The default is ``black'' since the core default for background is ``white.''
.TP 8
.B hand (class Foreground)
Specifies the color of the insides of the clock's hands.
.TP 8
.B high (class Foreground)
Specifies the color used to highlight the clock's hands.
.TP 8
.B analog (class Boolean)
Specifies whether or not an analog clock should be used instead of a digital
one.  The default is 
.TP 8
.B chime (class Boolean)
Specifies whether or not a bell should be rung on the hour.
.TP 8
.B padding (class Margin)
Specifies the amount of internal padding in pixels to be used.  The default is
8.
.TP 8
.B font (class Font)
Specifies the font to be used for the digital clock.  Note that variable width
fonts currently will not always display correctly.
.TP 8
.B reverseVideo (class ReverseVideo)
Specifies that the foreground and background should be reversed.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(1), xrdb(1), X(1), time(3C), select(2)
.SH BUGS
.I Xclock
believes the Unix clock.  When specifying the window size manually  in
digital  mode  the  string should be centered automatically, currently
you have to fiddle with the padding parameter to get it right.
.PP
When specifying an offset, the grammar requires an hours field but if
only minutes are given they will be quietly ignored.  A negative offset
of less than 1 hour is treated as a positive offset.
.PP
Digital clock windows default to the analog clock size.
.PP
Border color has to be explicitly specified when reverse video is used.
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
Tony Della Fera (MIT-Athena, DEC)
.br
Dave Mankins (MIT-Athena, BBN)
.br
Ed Moy (UC Berkeley)
