.TH XLOAD 1 "25 October 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xload - load average display for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xload
[-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-scale \fIinteger\fP] [-update \fIseconds\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I xload 
program displays a periodically updating histogram of the system load average.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.I Xload
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with the 
following additional options:
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-hl \fIcolor\fP or \-highlight \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the color of the scale lines.  
.TP 8
.B \-jumpscroll \FPnumber of pixels\fP
The number of pixels to shift the graph to the left when the graph
reaches the right edge of the window.  The default value is 1/2 the width
of the current window.  Smooth scrolling can be acheived by setting it to 1.
.TP 8
.B \-label \fIstring\fP
The string to put into the label above the load average.
.TP 8
.B \-nolabel
If this command line option is specified then no label will be
displayed above the load graph.
.TP 8
.B \-scale \fIinteger\fP
This option specifies the minimum number of tick marks in the histogram,
where one division represents one load average point.  If the load goes
above this number, \fIxload\fP will create more divisions, but it will never
use fewer than this number.  The default is 1.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-update \fIseconds\fP
This option specifies the frequency in seconds at which \fIxload\fP
updates its display.  The minimum amount of time allowed between updates
is 1 second (the default is 5 seconds).
.PP
The following standard X Toolkit arguments are commonly used
with \fIxload\fP:
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the border color.
The default is \fIblack\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the background color.
The default is \fIwhite\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIpixels\fP
This option specifies the width in pixels of the border around the window.
The default value is 2.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIcolor\fP
This option specifies the graph color.
The default color is \fIblack\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-fn \fIfontname\fP
This option specifies the font to be used in displaying the name of the 
host whose load is being monitored.  The default is \fI6x10\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-rv
This option indicates that reverse video should be simulated by swapping the
foreground and background colors.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fP
This option specifies the prefered size and postion of the window.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies the X server to contact.
.PP
.TP 8
.B \-xrm \fIresourcestring\fP
This option specifies a resource string to be used.  This is especially
useful for setting resources that do not have separate command line options.
.SH "X DEFAULTS"
.PP
This program uses the 
.I Load
widget in the X Toolkit.  It understands all of the core resource names and
classes as well as:
.TP 8
.B font (\fPclass\fB Font)
Specifies the font to be used for the label.  The default is \fIfixed\fP.
.TP 8
.B foreground (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies the color for the graph.  
The default is \fIblack\fP since the core default for background 
is \fIwhite\fP.
.TP 8
.B height (\fPclass\fB Height)
Specifies the height of the load average graph.
.TP 8
.B highlight (\fPclass\fB Foreground)
Specifies the color for the scale lines.  The default is the same
as for the \fBforeground\fP resource.
.TP 8
.B label (\fPclass\fB Label)
Specifies the label to use on the graph.  The default is the hostname.
.TP 8
.B Label*foreground (\fPclass\fB Label*Foreground)
Specifies the color for the label.   The default is the same
as for the \fBforeground\fP resource.
.TP 8
.B minScale (\fPclass\fB Scale)
Specifies the minimum number of ticks that will be displayed.  The default
is 1.
.TP 8
.B jumpScroll (\fPclass\fB JumpScroll)
The number of pixels to shift the graph to the left when the graph
reaches the right edge of the window.  The default value is 1/2 the width
of the current window.  Smooth scrolling can be acheived by setting
this resource to a value of 1.
.TP 8
.B reverseVideo (\fPclass\fB ReverseVideo)
Specifies that the foreground and background should be reversed.
.TP 8
.B showLabel (\fPclass\fB Boolean)
If False then no label will be displayed.
.TP 8
.B update (\fPclass\fB Interval)
Specifies the frequency in seconds at which the load should be redisplayed.
.TP 8
.B width (\fPclass\fB Width)
Specifies the width of the load average graph.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(1), xrdb(1), mem(4), Athena StripChart Widget.
.SH BUGS
This program requires the ability to open and read the special system
file \fI/dev/kmem\fP.  Sites that do not allow general access to this file
should make \fIxload\fP belong to the same group as \fI/dev/kmem\fP and
turn on the \fIset group id\fP permission flag.
.PP
Reading /dev/kmem is inherently non-portable.  Therefore, the routine
used to read it must be ported to each new operating system. 
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
K. Shane Hartman (MIT-LCS) and Stuart A. Malone (MIT-LCS);
.br
with features added by Jim Gettys (MIT-Athena), Bob Scheifler (MIT-LCS),
Tony Della Fera (MIT-Athena), and Chris Peterson (MIT-LCS).
