.TH XMAG 1 "28 January 1991" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xmag \- magnify parts of the screen.

.SH SYNOPSIS
xmag [-freq dynamicfreq] [-mag magfactor] [-source geom] [-z] [-toolkitoption ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The xmag program allows you to magnify portions of the screen.  If no 
explicit region is specified, a square with the pointer in the upper left 
corner is displayed indicating the area to be enlarged.  The area can be 
dagged out to the desired size after a button was pressed.  Once a region has 
been selected, a window is popped up showing a blown up version of the region 
in which each pixel in the source image is represented by a small square of 
the same color.  Pressing Button1 on the pointer in the enlargement window 
shows a small pixel information window displaying the position and RGB value
of the pixel under the pointer until the button is released.  Moving into the 
snall window or outside the enlarged image will popdown the pixel window.  
Pressing Button3 in the enlarged image window will triger another area 
selection process.  Pressing ``Q'' or ``^C'' in the enlargement window 
exits the program.
.SH WIDGETS
Xmag uses the X Toolkit Intrinsics and the Athena Widget Set.
The main part of the toplevel is Scale widget described below.  
For more information, see the Athena Widget Set documentation.
Below is the widget structure of the xmag application.
aIndentation indicates hierarchical  structure.  The widget class
name is given first, followed by the widget instance name.
.sp
.nf
	Xmag xmag
		Scale scale
		TransientShell labelShell
			Lable label
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
.B\-freq\fI dynamicfreq\fP
Frequency of drawing dynamic outline of the region to be selected.
The default value is 16.  Higher values will make the outline flicker less 
but they will make the server spend more time on drawing the outline.
.TP 4
.B\-magx\fI magfactor\fP
.B\-magy\fI magfactor\fP
.B\-mag\fI magfactor\fP
This option specifies a float factor by which the source
region is to be enlarged.  The default magnification is 5.0.  The
magnification factor cna be changed dynamically by resizing the window
or specified in the widgert resources for x and y separately.
.TP 4
.B\-source\fI geom\fP
This option specifies the size and/or location of the source region 
on the screen.  By default, a 64x64 square is provided for the user to select 
an area of the screen.
.TP 4
.B\-z\
This option indicates that the server should be grabbed during the 
dynamics and the call to XGetImage.  This is useful for ensuring that clients 
don't change their state as a result of entering or leaving them with the 
pointer.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1991, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(1), xwd(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Davor Matic and David Sternlicht, MIT X Consortium.

