.\" $XConsortium: xcmsdb.man,v 1.5 93/08/02 11:14:04 gildea Exp $
.TH XCMSDB 1 "Release 5" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xcmsdb \- Xlib Screen Color Characterization Data utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xcmsdb
[\-option ...] [\fIfilename\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I xcmsdb
is used to load, query, or remove Device Color Characterization data 
stored in properties on the root window of the screen as specified
in section 7, Device Color Characterization, of the ICCCM.
Device Color Characterization data (also called the  Device Drofile)
is an integral part of Xlib's X Color Management System (Xcms), necessary
for proper conversion of color specification between device-independent
and device-dependent forms.
Xcms uses 3x3 matrices stored in the XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_MATRICES property to
convert color specifications between CIEXYZ and RGB Intensity (XcmsRGBi, also
referred to as linear RGB).
Xcms then uses display gamma information stored in the
XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_CORRECTION property to convert color specifications between
RGBi and RGB device (XcmsRGB, also referred to as device RGB).
.LP
Note that Xcms allows clients to register \fIfunction sets\fp in addition to its
built-in function set for CRT color monitors.  Additional function sets
may store their device profile information in other properties in function
set specific format.
This utility is unaware of these non-standard properties.
.LP
The ASCII readable contents of
.I filename
(or the standard input if no input file is given)
are appropriately transformed for storage in properties, provided the
.B \-query 
or 
.B \-remove 
options are not specified.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
.I xcmsdb
program accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B \-query
This option attempts to read the XDCCC properties off the screen's root
window.
If successful, it transforms the data into a more readable format, then
sends the data to standard out.  
.TP 8
.B \-remove
This option attempts to remove the XDCCC properties on the screen's root
window.
.TP 8
.B \-format 32 | 16 | 8
Specifies the property format (32, 16, or 8 bits per entry) for the
XDCCC_LINEAR_RGB_CORRECTION property.
Precision of encoded floating point values increases with the increase
in bits per entry.
The default is 32 bits per entry.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xprop(1), Xlib documentation
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to figure out which display and screen to use.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Unknown
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1990, Tektronix Inc.
.SH AUTHOR
Chuck Adams, Tektronix Inc.
Al Tabayoyon, SynChromatics Inc. (added multi-visual support)
