.\" $XConsortium: oclock.man,v 1.13 94/04/12 15:34:58 gildea Exp $
.\" Copyright 1989 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written prior permission.  M.I.T. makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.TH OCLOCK 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
oclock \- round X clock
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oclock
[\-option ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Oclock
simply displays the current time on an analog display.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-fg \fIcolor\fB
choose a different color for the both hands and the jewel of the clock
.TP 8
.B \-bg \fIcolor\fB
choose a different color for the background.
.TP 8
.B \-jewel \fIcolor\fB
choose a different color for the jewel on the clock.
.TP 8
.B \-minute \fIcolor\fB
choose a different color for the minute hand of the clock.
.TP 8
.B \-hour \fIcolor\fB
choose a different color for the hour hand of the clock.
.TP 8
.B \-backing \fI{ WhenMapped Always NotUseful }\fB
selects an appropriate level of backing store.
.TP 8
.B \-geometry \fIgeometry\fB
define the initial window geometry; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fB
specify the display to use; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-bd \fIcolor\fB
choose a different color for the window border.
.TP 8
.B \-bw \fIwidth\fB
choose a different width for the window border.  As the Clock widget changes
its border around quite a bit, this is most usefully set to zero.
.TP 8
.B \-shape
causes the clock to use the Shape extension to create an oval window.
This is the default unless the shapeWindow resource is set to false.
.TP 8
.B \-noshape
causes the clock to not reshape itself and ancestors to exactly
fit the outline of the clock.
.TP 8
.B \-transparent
causes the clock to consist only of the jewel, the hands, and the border.
.SH COLORS
If you would like your clock to be viewable in color, include the following 
in the #ifdef COLOR section you read with xrdb:
.sp 1
*customization:                 -color
.sp 1
.br
This will cause oclock to pick up the colors in the app-defaults color
customization file:
<XRoot>/lib/X11/app-defaults/Clock-color.
Below are the default colors:
.sp 1
Clock*Background: grey
.br
Clock*BorderColor: light blue
.br
Clock*hour: yellow
.br
Clock*jewel: yellow
.br
Clock*minute: yellow
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), X Toolkit documentation
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
