.TH Xman 1 "1 March 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xman - X window system manual page display program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xman
[-options ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xman
opens a small window on the display that contains the a menu of
commands.  My hope is that this is small enough to allow you to call
it in your .login and leave it running throughout your entire login
session.  At this point in the program there several options;
\fIHelp\fP will pop up a window with on-line help, \fIQuit\fP will
exit, and \fIManual Page\fP will pop up a window with a manual page
browser in it, you may pop up more than one manual page browser window
from a single execution of xman.
.PP
For further information on using xman please read the on-line
help information.  The rest of this manual page will discuss
customization of xman to suit the needs of a particular user.
For groups that desire to create a new directory listing (manual
section), read the section on the \fImandesc\fP file that allows
system wide customization of manual sections.
.PP
Xman creates temporary files for all unformatted man pages and all apropos
searches.  These files are stored in /tmp. 
.PP
.SH MANDESC
Xman will search each directory in the MANPATH for files to add to the
directory listing.  xman also looks for a file called \fImandesc\fP in
each directory specified in the manpath.  The mandesc file tells xman
to create a separate section for one or more of the directories in the
manpath.  For example, if your manpath were '/usr/man:/usr/sipb/man'
then xman would search /usr/man and finding no mandesc file would put
all of its files in the default section names (e.g. manl gets a section name
of local).  But it does find a mandesc file while searching
/usr/sipb/man, this file contains the line 'lSIPB Programs' (no quote
marks) this tells xman to put all files in the 'manl' section in a new
directory called 'SIPB Programs'.  Xman will search this file until
there are no more lines of information.  This flexabilty is \fIideal
for courses\fP that have their own manual pages.  Like 'man' xman
searches only the following directories: man0, man1, man2, man3...
man8 ,manl (small L), mann.  Although it usually ignores the
information in man0 unless there is a \fImandesc\fP that specifically
tells it not to.
.PP
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.PP
These are the command line options that xman understands.  Please note
that some of these are inherited from the XToolkit and as the list of
default toolkit options changes xman will follow.
.PP
.TP 16
.B -helpfile <filename>
.br
Specifies a helpfile to use other than the default.
.PP
.TP 16
.B -bothshown
.br
Allows both the manual page and manual directory to be on the screen at
the same time.
.PP
.TP 16
.B -notopbox
.br
Starts xman without the Top Menu with the three buttons in it.
.PP
.B -geometry (height)x(width)+(x_offset)+(y_offset)
.TP 16
.B =(height)x(width)+(x_offset)+(y_offset)
.br
Sets the size and location of the Top Menu with the three buttons in it.
.PP
.TP 16
.B -pagesize (height)x(width)+(x_offset)+(y_offset)
.br
Sets the size and location of all the Manual Pages.
.PP
.B -bw <pixels>
.TP 16
.B -borderwidth <pixels>
.br
Specifies the width of the border for all windows in xman.
.PP
.B -bd <color>
.TP 16
.B -bordercolor <color>
.br
Specifies the color of the borders of all windows in xman.
.PP
.B -fg <color>
.TP 16
.B -foreground <color>
.br
Specifies the foreground color to be used.
.PP
.B -bg <color>
.TP 16
.B -background <color>
.br
Specifies the background color to be used.
.PP
.B -fn <font>
.TP 16
.B -font <font>
.br
Specifies the font to use for all buttons and labels.
.TP 16
.B -display <host:display[.screen]>
.br
Specifies a display other than the default specified by the DISPLAY
environment variable to use to use.
.TP 16
.B -name <name>
.br
Specifies the name to use when retrieving resources.
.PP
.TP 16
.B -title <title>
.br
Specifies the title of this application.
.PP
.TP 16
.B -xrm <resource>
.br
Allows a resource to be specified on the command line.
.PP
.SH "WIDGET AND RESOURCE NAMES"

Resource management is an important part of X Toolkit applications, and
xman is not exception, all objects in xman can have many of their 
distinguishing characteristics changed by changing the resources associated 
with them, below is a brief list of the resources and what they modify.
.TP 35
foreground			
- foreground color
.TP 35
background			
- background color
.TP 35
width & height			
- size
.TP 35
borderWidth			
- border width
.TP 35
borderColor			
- border color
.PP
In order to change the default values for the widget resources you need
to have the names, thus, below I have specified the names of some of the
most common widgets.
.TP 35
Top Menu
- topBox.
.TP 35
Help Window
- help
.TP 35
Manual Page Display Window
- manualBrowser.
.TP 35
Manual Page Command Popup Menu 	
- xmanCommands.
.TP 35
Manual Page Section Popup Menu 	
- xmanSections.
.TP 35
Manual Page Search Popup       	
- xmanSearch.
.PP
You can also reference Widgets by class, two of the most common classes
are: Label, Command and Text.
.PP
Here are a few example of how to string all this information together into
a resource specification, that can be used on the command line with the -xrm
flag, or added to you .Xresource file.
.TP 35
.B xman*Command.foreground: Blue
All command buttons will be  blue.
.TP 35
.B xman*topBox*foreground: Blue
Everything in the top menu has a blue foreground.
.TP 35
.B xman*Text.border: Red
All text widgets have a red border.
.TP 35
.B xman*Label.font: 9x15  
All label buttons have a 9x15 font.
.PP
In addition Xman has a few specific application resources, that allow
customizations that are specific to xman. 
.PP
.B manualFontNormal
.PP
.B manualFontBold
.TP 16
.B manualFontItalic
The fonts to use for the three types of text in the manual pages.
.PP
.TP 8
.B directoryFontNormal
The font to use for the directory text.
.PP
.TP 8
.B bothShown
Either 'true' or 'false', specifies whether or not you want both the
directory and the manual page shown at start up.
.PP
.TP 8
.B directoryHeight
The number of pixels heigh the directory is when both it and the manual page
are shown simultaneously.
.PP
.B topCursor
.PP
.B helpCursor
.PP
.B manpageCursor
.TP 16
.B searchEntryCursor
The cursors to use in the top box, help window, manual page window,
and search entry text widget respectively.
.PP
.TP 8 
.B helpFile
Use this rather than the system default helpfile.
.PP
.TP 8
.B topBox
.br
Either 'true' or 'false', determines whether the top box (containing
the help, quit and manual page buttons) or a manual page is put on the screen
at start-up.
.PP
.TP 8
.B verticalList
.br
Either 'true' or 'false', determines whether the directory listing is 
vertically or horizontally organized, the default is horizontal (false).
.PP
.SH FILES
/usr/man/* or those specified in the MANPATH.
.br 
mandesc
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), X(8C), man(1), apropos(1)
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display to use.
.TP 8
.B MANPATH
to get the search path for manual pages.  Directories are separated by
colons (e.g. /usr/man:/mit/kit/man:/foo/bar/man).
.PP
.SH BUGS
The -fn and -font option only specify the fonts for the command button
and not the text of the manpages or directories. 
.PP
.SH AUTHORS
Copyright 1988 by Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
Chris Peterson, MIT Project Athena from the V10 version written by Barry
Shein of Boston University.
