.\" Copyright 1993 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written prior permission.  M.I.T. makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtCall-Action-Proc wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft 1
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de FD
.LP
.KS
.TA .5i 3i
.ta .5i 3i
.nf
..
.de FN
.fi
.KE
.LP
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de C{
.KS
.nf
.D
.\"
.\"	choose appropriate monospace font
.\"	the imagen conditional, 480,
.\"	may be changed to L if LB is too
.\"	heavy for your eyes...
.\"
.ie "\\*(.T"480" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"300" .ft L
.el .ie "\\*(.T"202" .ft PO
.el .ie "\\*(.T"aps" .ft CW
.el .ft R
.ps \\n(PS
.ie \\n(VS>40 .vs \\n(VSu
.el .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de C}
.DE
.R
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.de NT
.ne 7
.ds NO Note
.if \\n(.$>$1 .if !'\\$2'C' .ds NO \\$2
.if \\n(.$ .if !'\\$1'C' .ds NO \\$1
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
.TB
.ce
\\*(NO
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 5p
.if '\\$1'C' .ce 99
.if '\\$2'C' .ce 99
.in +5n
.ll -5n
.R
..
.		\" Note End -- doug kraft 3/85
.de NE
.ce 0
.in -5n
.ll +5n
.ie n .sp
.el .sp 10p
..
.ny0
.TH XtCallActionProc 3Xt "Release 6" "X Version 11" "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtCallActionProc \- invoke an action procedure directly
.SH SYNTAX
void XtCallActionProc(\fIwidget\fP, \fIaction\fP, \fIevent\fP, \
\fIparams\fP, \fInum_params\fP)
.br
      Widget \fIwidget\fP;
.br
      String \fIaction\fP;
.br
      XEvent* \fIevent\fP;
.br
      String* \fIparams\fP;
.br
      Cardinal \fInum_params\fP;
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1i
Specifies the widget in which the action is to be invoked. Must be
of class core of any subclass thereof.
.IP \fIaction\fP 1i
Specifies the name of the action routine.
.IP \fIevent\fP 1i
Specifies the contents of the \fIevent\fP passed to the action routine.
.IP \fIparams\fP 1i
Specifies the contents of the \fIparams\fP passed to the action routine.
.IP \fInum_params\fP 1i
Specifies the num of entries in \fIparams\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ZN XtCallActionProc
searches for the named action routine in the same manner and order as
translation tables are bound. If found, the action routine is invoked
with the specified widget, event pointer, and parameters. It is the
responsibility of the caller to ensure that the contents of \fIevent\fP,
\fIparams\fP, and \fInum_params\fP arguments are appropriate for the
specified routine, and if necessary, that the specified widget is
realized or sensitive. If the named action routine cannot be found,
.ZN XtCallActionProc
generates a warning message and returns.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
