.TH XREFRESH 1 "1 March 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xrefresh - refresh all or part of the screen.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xrefresh"
[-option ...] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xrefresh
is a simple X program that causes all or part of your screen to be repainted.
.I Xrefresh
maps a window on top of the desired area of the screen and then immediately
unmaps it, 
causing refresh events to be sent to all applications.  By default, a
a window with no background is used, causing all applications to repaint
``smoothly.''
However, the various options can be used to indicate that a solid background 
(of any color) or the root window background should be used instead.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-white
Use a white background.  The screen just appears to flash quickly, and then
repaint.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-black
Use a black background (in effect, turning off all of the electron guns to
the tube).  This can be somewhat disorienting as everything goes black for
a moment.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-solid \fIcolor\fP
Use a solid background of the specified color.  Try green.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-root
Use the root window background.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-none
This is the default.  All of the windows simply repaint.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-geometry \fIWxH+X+Y\fP
Specifies the portion of the screen to be repainted.  This superceeds the
old style \fB=WxH+X+Y\fP.
.PP
.TP 10
.B \-display \fIhost\fP:\fIdisplay\fP
This  argument  allows  you  to  specify the host and display number on
which to display the refresh window.  For example ``xrefresh -display 
orpheus:1''
would specify that the display `1' on the machine
`orpheus' will be refreshed.  By default,
.I xrefresh
uses the host and display number stored in the environment variable
DISPLAY, and therefore this argument is not normally specified.
.SH X DEFAULTS
.PP
This program uses the 
.I XGetDefault
routine and therefore uses capitalized named instead of ones starting
with lower case letters.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Black\fP, \fBWhite\fP, \fBSolid\fP, \fBNone\fP, \fBRoot\fP
Determines what sort of window background to use.
.PP
.TP 8
.B Geometry
Determines the area to refresh.  Not very useful.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
DISPLAY - To get default host and display number.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(1), uwm(1), X(8)
.SH BUGS
.PP
It should have just one default type for the background.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHORS
Jim Gettys, Digital Equipment Corp., MIT Project Athena
.br
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium

