.TH SESSREG 1 "25 October 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
sessreg \- manage utmp/wtmp entries for non-init clients
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sessreg
[-w \fIwtmp-file\fP]
[-u \fIutmp-file\fP]
[-l \fIline-name\fP]
[-h \fIhost-name\fP (BSD only)]
[-s \fIslot-number\fP (BSD only)]
[-x \fIXservers-file\fP (BSD only)]
[-t \fIttys-file\fP (BSD only)]
[-a]
[-d]
\fIuser-name\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fISessreg\fP is a simple program for managing utmp/wtmp
entries for xdm sessions.
.PP
System V has a better interface to /etc/utmp than Berkeley Unix; it
dynamically allocates entries in the file, instead of writing them at fixed
positions indexed by position in /etc/ttys.
.PP
To manage Berkeley style utmp files, \fIsessreg\P has two strategies.  In
conjunction with xdm, the -x option counts the number of lines in /etc/ttys
and then adds that number to the number of the line in the xdm-specific
Xservers file specifying the display.  This sum then specifies the
"slot-number" in /etc/utmp that this entry will be written at.  In the more
general case, the -s option specifies the slot-number directly
.PP
Conversely, System V managers will not ever need to use these options.  To
make the program easier to document and explain, \fIsessreg\fP accepts the
Berkeley-specific flags in the System V environment and ignores them.
.SH USAGE
.PP
In Xstartup, place a call like:
.br
.nf
       sessreg -a -l $DISPLAY -x /usr/lib/X11/xdm/Xservers $USER
.fi
.br
and in Xreset:
.br
.nf
       sessreg -a -l $DISPLAY -x /usr/lib/X11/xdm/Xservers $USER
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-w\fP \fIwtmp-file\fP"
This specifies an alternate wtmp file, instead of /usr/adm/wtmp for BSD or
/etc/wtmp for sysV.  The special name "none" disables writing records to
/usr/adm/wtmp.
.IP "\fB-u\fP \fIutmp-file\fP"
This specifies an alternate utmp file, instead of "/etc/utmp".  The special
name "none" disabbles writing records to /etc/utmp.
.IP "\fB-l\fP \fIline-name\fP"
This describes the "line" name of the entry.  For terminal sessions,
this is the final pathname segment of the terminal device filename
(e.g. ttyd0).  For X sessions, it should probably be the local display name
given to the users session (e.g. :0).  If none is specified, the
terminal name will be determined with ttyname(3) and stripped of leading
components.
.IP "\fB-h\fP \fIhost-name\fP"
This is set for BSD hosts to indicate that the session was initiated from
a remote host.  In typical xdm usage, this options is not used.
.IP "\fB-s\fP \fIslot-number\fP"
Each potential session has a unique slot number in BSD systems, most are
identified by the position of the \fIline-name\fP in the /etc/ttys file.
This option overrides the default position determined with ttyslot(3).
This option is inappropriate for use with xdm, the -x option is more useful.
.IP "\fB-x\fP \fIXservers-file\fP"
As X sessions are one-per-display, and each display is entered in this file,
this options sets the \fIslot-number\fP to be the number of lines in
the \fIttys-file\fP plus the index into this file that the \fIline-name\fP
is found.
.IP "\fB-t\fP \fIttys-file\fP"
This specifies an alternate file which the \fI-x\fP option will use to count
the number of terminal sessions on a host.
.IP "\fB-a\fP"
This session should be added to utmp/wtmp.
.IP "\fB-d\fP"
This session should be deleted from utmp/wtmp.  One of -a/-d must
be specified.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
xdm(1)
.SH BUGS
.br
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard, MIT X Consortium
