.\" $XConsortium: Xvfb.man,v 1.4 94/04/11 16:03:07 matt Exp $
.\" Copyright 1993 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written prior permission.  M.I.T. makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.TH XVFB 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
Xvfb \- virtual framebuffer X server for X Version 11
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Xvfb
[ option ] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xvfb
is an X server that can run on machines with no display hardware
and no physical input devices.  It emulates a dumb framebuffer using
virtual memory.
.PP
The primary use of this server is intended to be server testing.
The mfb or cfb code for any depth can be exercised with this
server without
the need for real hardware that supports the desired depths.
.PP
A secondary use is testing clients against unusual depths and screen
configurations.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
In addition to the normal server options described in the \fIXserver(1)\fP
manual page, \fIXvfb\fP accepts the following command line switches:
.TP 4
.B "\-screen \fIscreennum\fP \fIWxHxD\fP"
This option creates screen \fIscreennum\fP and sets its width, height,
and depth to W, H, and D respectively.  By default, only screen 0 exists
and has the dimensions 1280x1024x8.
.TP 4
.B "\-pixdepths \fIlist-of-depths\fP"
This option specifies a list of pixmap depths that the server should
support in addition to the depths implied by the supported screens.
\fIlist-of-depths\fP is a space-separated list of integers that can
have values from 1 to 32.
.TP 4
.B "\-fbdir \fIframebuffer-directory\fP"
This option specifies the directory in which the memory mapped files
containing the framebuffer memory should be created.
See FILES. 
This option only exists on machines that have the mmap and msync system
calls.
.TP 4
.B "\-shmem"
This option specifies that the framebuffer should be put in shared memory.
The shared memory ID for each screen will be printed by the server.
The shared memory is in xwd format.
This option only exists on machines that support the System V shared memory
interface.
.PP
If neither \fB\-shmem\fP nor \fB\-fbdir\fP is specified,
the framebuffer memory will be allocated with malloc().
.SH FILES
The following files are created if the \-fbdir option is given.
.TP 4
\fIframebuffer-directory\fP/Xvfb_screen<n>
Memory mapped file containing screen n's framebuffer memory, one file
per screen.  The file is in xwd format.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP 8
Xvfb :1 -screen 0 1600x1200x32
The server will listen for connections as server number 1, and screen 0
will be depth 32 1600x1200.
.TP 8
Xvfb :1 -screen 1 1600x1200x16
The server will listen for connections as server number 1, will have the
default screen configuration (one screen, 1280x1024x8), and screen 1
will be depth 16 1600x1200.
.TP 8
Xvfb -pixdepths 3 27 -fbdir /usr/tmp
The server will listen for connections as server number 0, will have the
default screen configuration (one screen, 1280x1024x8),
will also support pixmap
depths of 3 and 27, 
and will use memory mapped files in /usr/tmp for the framebuffer.
.TP 8
xwud -in /usr/tmp/Xvfb_screen0
Displays screen 0 of the server started by the preceding example.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
X(1), Xserver(1), xwd(1), xwud(1), XWDFile.h
.SH AUTHORS
David P. Wiggins, X Consortium, Inc.
