.\" $XConsortium: xconsole.man,v 1.6 94/04/11 16:03:26 matt Exp $
.\" Copyright 1988 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written prior permission.  M.I.T. makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.TH XCONSOLE 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xconsole \- monitor system console messages with X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ta 8n
\fBxconsole\fP	[-\fItoolkitoption\fP ...] [-file \fIfile-name\fP]
[-notify] [-stripNonprint] [-daemon] [-verbose] [-exitOnFail]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I xconsole 
program displays messages which are usually sent to /dev/console.
.SH OPTIONS
.I Xconsole
accepts all of the standard X Toolkit command line options along with the 
additional options listed below:
.TP 8
.B \-file \fIfile-name\fP
To monitor some other device, use this option to specify the device name.
This does not work on regular files as they are always ready to be read from.
.TP 8
.B \-notify \-nonotify
When new data are received from the console and the notify option is set,
the icon name of the application has " *" appended, so that it is evident
even when the application is iconified.  \-notify is the default.
.TP 8
.B \-daemon
This option causes
.I xconsole
to place itself in the background, using fork/exit.
.TP 8
.B \-verbose
When set, this option directs
.I xconsole
to display an informative message in the first line of the text buffer.
.TP 8
.B \-exitOnFail
When set, this option directs
.I xconsole
to exit when it is unable to redirect the console output.
.SH X DEFAULTS
This program uses the 
.I Athena Text
widget, look in the
.I Athena Widget Set
documentation for controlling it.
.SH WIDGETS
In order to specify resources, it is useful to know the hierarchy of
the widgets which compose \fIxconsole\fR.  In the notation below,
indentation indicates hierarchical structure.  The widget class name
is given first, followed by the widget instance name.
.sp
.nf
.TA .5i 
.ta .5i 
XConsole  xconsole
	XConsole  text
.fi
.sp
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get the default host and display number.
.TP 8
.B XENVIRONMENT
to get the name of a resource file that overrides the global resources
stored in the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.SH FILES
<XRoot>/lib/X11/app-defaults/XConsole - specifies required resources
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), xrdb(1), Athena Text widget
.SH AUTHOR
Keith Packard (MIT X Consortium)
