.TH XWUD 1 "27 December 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xwud - image displayer for X
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xwud"
[-in \fIfile\fP] [-geometry \fIgeom\fP] [-display \fIdisplay\fP]
[-new] [-raw] [-help] [-rv] [-plane \fInumber\fP]
[-fg \fIcolor\fP] [-bg \fIcolor\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xwud
is an X Window System image undumping utility.
.I Xwud
allows X users to display in a window an image saved
in a specially formatted dump file, such as produced by \fIxwd(1)\fP.
.PP
Clicking any button in the window will terminate the application.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-help"
Print out a short description of the allowable options.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-in \fIfile\fP"
This option allows the user to explicitly specify the input 
file on the command line.  If no input file is given, the standard input
is assumed.
.PP
.TP 8
.B -rv
If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option
forces the foreground and background colors to be swapped.  This may be
needed when displaying a bitmap image which has the color sense of pixel
values "0" and "1" reversed from what they are on your display.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-display \fIdisplay\fP"
This option allows you to specify the server to connect to; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-geometry \fIgeom\fP"
This option allows you to specify the size and position of the window.
Typically you will only want to specify the position, and let the size
default to the actual size of the image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B -new
This option forces creation of a new colormap for displaying the image.
If the image characteristics happen to match those of the display, this
can get the image on the screen faster, but at the cost of using a new
colormap (which on most displays will cause other windows to go
technicolor).
.PP
.TP 8
.B -raw
This option forces the image to be displayed with whatever color values
happen to currently exist on the screen.  This option is mostly useful when
undumping an image back onto the same screen that the image originally
came from, while the original windows are still on the screen, and results
in getting the image on the screen faster.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-plane \fInumber\fP"
If the image is in XY format, you can select a single bit plane to display
with this option.  Planes are numbered with zero being the least
significant bit.  This option can be used to figure out which plane to
pass to \fIxpr(1)\fP for printing.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-fg \fIcolor\fP"
If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option
can be used to specify the color to display for the "1" bits in the image.
.PP
.TP 8
.B "-bg \fIcolor\fP"
If a bitmap image (or a single plane of an image) is displayed, this option
can be used to specify the color to display for the "0" bits in the image.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get default display.
.SH FILES
.PP
.TP 8
.B XWDFile.h
X Window Dump File format definition file.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Needs to be faster when translating colors.
Needs to be much faster when translating DirectColor colors.
.SH SEE ALSO
xwd(1), xpr(1), X(1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1988, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Bob Scheifler, MIT X Consortium


