.\" $XConsortium: xlscli.man,v 1.6 94/04/11 14:28:31 gildea Exp $
.\" Copyright 1991 Massachusetts Institute of Technology
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, distribute, and sell this software and
.\" its documentation for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided
.\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting
.\" documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be used in advertising or
.\" publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific,
.\" written prior permission.  M.I.T. makes no representations about the
.\" suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
.\" without express or implied warranty.
.TH XLSCLIENTS 1 "Release 6" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xlsclients - list client applications running on a display
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "xlsclients"
[-display \fIdisplayname\fP] [-a] [-l] [-m maxcmdlen]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.I Xlsclients
is a utility for listing information about the client applications 
running on a display.  It may be used to generate scripts representing
a snapshot of the user's current session.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplayname\fP
This option specifies the X server to contact.
.TP 8
.B \-a
This option indicates that clients on all screens should be listed.  By 
default, only those clients on the default screen are listed.
.TP 8
.B \-l
List in long format, giving the window name, icon name,
and class hints in addition to the machine name and command string shown in
the default format.
.TP 8
.B \-m \fImaxcmdlen\fP
This option specifies the maximum number of characters in a command to 
print out.  The default is 10000.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
To get the default host, display number, and screen.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
X(1), xwininfo(1), xprop(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Jim Fulton, MIT X Consortium
