.de EX		\"Begin example
.ne 5
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
.nf
.in +.5i
..
.de EE
.fi
.in -.5i
.if n .sp 1
.if t .sp .5
..
.TH XCMAP 1 "21 March 1989" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xcmap - X standard colormap utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xcmap
[-all] [-best] [-blue] [-default] [-display \fIdisplay\fP] [-gray] [-green]
[-help] [-red] [-verbose]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The \fIxcmap\fP utility can be used to selectively define standard colormap
properties.  It is intended to be run from a user's X startup script to
create standard colormap definitions in order to facilitate sharing of
scarce colormap resources among clients.  Where at all possible, colormaps
are created with read-only allocations.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
The following options may be used with \fIxcmap\fP:
.TP 8
.B \-all
This option indicates that all six standard colormap properties should be
defined on each screen of the display.  Not all screens will support 
visuals under which all six standard colormap properties are meaningful.
\fIxcmap\fP will determine the best 
allocations and visuals for the colormap properties of a screen. 
.TP 8
.B \-best
This option indicates that the RGB_BEST_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-blue 
This option indicates that the RGB_BLUE_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-default
This option indicates that the RGB_DEFAULT_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-display \fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies the host and display to use; see \fIX(1)\fP.
.TP 8
.B \-gray
This option indicates that the RGB_GRAY_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-green
This option indicates that the RGB_GREEN_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-help
This option indicates that a brief description of the command line arguments
should be printed on the standard error.  This will be done whenever an
unhandled argument is given to
.I xcmap.
.TP 8
.B \-red
This option indicates that the RGB_RED_MAP should be defined.
.TP 8
.B \-verbose
This option indicates that \fIxcmap\fP should
print logging information as it parses its input and defines the
standard colormap properties.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
.TP 8
.B DISPLAY
to get default host and display number.
.SH SEE ALSO
X(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Defaulting to greatest depth on deep displays is not always the best policy
for promoting the sharing of colormap resources.
.PP
Does not observe the ICCCM recommendations.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 1989, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
.br
See \fIX(1)\fP for a full statement of rights and permissions.
.SH AUTHOR
Donna Converse, MIT X Consortium


