.TH XRDB 1 "6 January 1988" "X Version 11"
.SH NAME
xrdb - Server Resource Database Utility.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xrdb
[
.B \-options
] [
.I filename
] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Xrdb
is used to get or set the contents of the RESOURCE_MANAGER property
on the root window of screen 0.  You would normally run this program from 
your .login script.
.LP
The
.I filename
(or the standard input if - or no input file is given)
is (optionally) passed through the C preprocessor with the 
following symbols defined, based on the capabilities of the server
being used:
.TP
.B HOST=<hostname>
the hostname portion of the display to which you are
connected.
.TP
.B WIDTH=<num>
the width of the screen in pixels.
.TP
.B HEIGHT=<num>
the height of the screen in pixels.
.TP
.B X_RESOLUTION=<num>
the x resolution of the screen in pixels per meter.
.TP
.B Y_RESOLUTION=<num>
the y resolution of the screen in pixels per meter.
.TP
.B PLANES=<num>
the number of bit planes for the default visual.
.TP
.B CLASS=<visual class>
one of {StaticGray, GrayScale, StaticColor, PsuedoColor, TrueColor,
DirectColor}.
.TP
.B COLOR
only defined if the default visual's type is one of the color options.
.LP
Lines that begin with a "!" character are discarded.
.LP
The resource manager (used by the Xlib routine XGetDefault and the
Xtk toolkit) uses the RESOURCE_MANAGER property to get user preferences about 
color, fonts, and so on for applications.  Having this information in
the server, where it is available to all clients, 
solves the problem in Version 10 of X which required you to 
maintain up to date default files on all of the machines you
used in your network.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
The 
.B xrdb
program accepts the following options:
.TP
.B \-help
This option (or any other incorrect option) will cause a brief description of 
the allowable options and parameters to be printed.
.TP
.B \-display \fIhost\fP:\fIdisplay\fP
This option specifies the server to be used.
.TP
.B -cpp \fIfilename\fP
This option specifies the pathname of the C preprocessor program to be used.
Although 
.B xrdb
was designed to use CPP, any program that acts as a filter
and accepts the -D, -I, and -U options may be used.
.TP
.B -nocpp
This option indicates that
.I xrdb
should not run the input file through a preprocessor before loading it
into the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP
.B \-symbols
This option indicates that the symbols that are defined for the preprocessor
should be printed onto the standard output.  It can be used in conjunction with 
.B \-query,
but not with the options that change the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP
.B \-query
This option indicates that the current contents of the RESOURCE_MANAGER 
property should be printed onto the standard output.
.TP
.B \-load
This option indicates that the input should be loaded as the new value
of the RESOURCE_MANAGER property, replacing whatever what there (i.e.
the old contents are deleted).  This is the default action.
.TP
.B \-merge
This option indicates that the input should be merged with, instead of
replacing, the current contents of the RESOURCE_MANAGER property.
.TP
.B \-remove
This option indicates that the RESOUCE_MANAGER property should be removed
from its window.
.TP
.B \-edit \fIfilename\fP
This option indicates that the contents of the RESOURCE_MANAGER property
should be edited into the given file, replacing any values already listed
there.  This is the opposite of 
.B \-merge.
.TP
.B \-backup \fIstring\fP
This option specifies a suffix to be appended to the filename used with
.B \-edit
to generate a backup file.
.TP
.B \-D\fIname\[=value\]\fP
This option is passed through to the preprocessor and is used to define 
symbols for use with conditionals such as
.I #ifdef.
.TP
.B \-U\fIname\fP
This option is passed through to the preprocessor and is used to remove
any definitions of this symbol.
.TP
.B \-I\fIdirectory\fP
This option is passed through to the preprocessor and is used to specify
a directory to search for files that are referenced with 
.I #include.
.SH FILES
Generalizes the ~/.Xdefaults notion.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XGetDefault(3X)
.SH ENVIRONMENT
DISPLAY	-	To figure out which display to use.
.SH AUTHORS
Jim Gettys
.br
Phil Karlton
.br
Copyright (c) 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation
.br

